# Lab Answer Key:  Module 8: Planning and deploying Skype for Business Online
# Lab: Configuring Skype for Business Online
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring Skype for Business Online organization settings
  
#### Task 1: Download and install the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=294688**.

2. On the  **Skype for Business Online, Windows PowerShell Module** page, click **Download**, click  **Save**, and then click  **Run**.

3. Select  **I agree to the license terms and conditions**, and then click  **Install**.

4. If a  **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.

5. Click **Restart** and wait for LON-CL1 to restart.

6. Sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

7. After the installation completes, in the **Skype for Business Online, Windows PowerShell Module** dialog, click  **Close**.

8. Close the Microsoft Edge window if it open.



#### Task 2: Enable Skype Meeting Broadcast for the organization
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the search box on the taskbar, type  **PowerShell**.

2. In the search results, right-click  **Windows PowerShell**, and then click  **Run as administrator**.

3. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

4. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $cred = Get-Credential
  ```

5. In the  **credentials** dialog box, enter the user name **Holly@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** and the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **OK**.

6. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $SfBSession = New-CSOnlineSession -Credential $cred
  ```

7. Type  **Y** and press Enter.

8. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Import-PSSession $SfBSession
  ```

9. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-CsBroadcastMeetingConfiguration -EnableBroadcastMeeting $True
  ```

10. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-CsBroadcastMeetingConfiguration
  ```

11. Verify that the _ EnableBroadcastMeeting_ parameter is set to True.



#### Task 3: Configure the organization settings for Skype for Business Online
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Windows PowerShell command-line interface window, type the following command to enable privacy mode, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-CSPrivacyConfiguration -EnablePrivacyMode $True
  ```

  > Note the warning that you receive about enabling client version checking.

2. To disable push notifications for Apple devices, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-CSPushNotificationConfiguration -EnableApplePushNotification $False
  ```

3. To verify the privacy notification settings, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-CSPrivacyConfiguration
  ```

  You should see the following output:

    - Identity:  **Global**
    - EnablePrivacyMode:  **True**
    - AutoInitiateContacts:  **True**
    - PublishLocationDataDefault:  **True**
    - DisplayPublishedPhotoDefault:  **True**

4. To verify the push notification settings, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-CSPushNotificationConfiguration
  ```

5. To allow users to communicate with public Skype users, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowPublicUsers $True
  ```

6. To allow users to communicate with federated partners, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowFederatedUsers $True
  ```

7. To enable communication with all federated partners except for litware.com, type the following commands, and then press Enter after each command:

  ```
  $AllDomains = New-CsEdgeAllowAllKnownDomains
  ```

  ```
  $BlockedDomain = New-CsEdgeDomainPattern -Domain "litware.com"
  ```

  ```
  Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowedDomains $AllDomains -BlockedDomains $BlockedDomain
  ```

  ```
  Get-CsTenantFederationConfiguration
  ```

5. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

6. If needed, sign in as  **Holly@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

7. On the  **Office 365** home page, click the **Admin** tile.

8. In the Microsoft Office 365 admin center, in the menu to the left, click  **Admin centers**, and then click  **Skype for Business**.

9. On the left-hand side, click  **organization**.

10. On the  **general** page, under presence privacy mode, verify that the setting is configured as **Display presence information only to a user's contacts**.

11. Under mobile phone notifications, verify that  **Apple** **Push Notification Service** is not enabled, and then click **external communications**.

12. Under external access, verify that  **On** **except for** **blocked domains** is selected.

13. Verify that under blocked or allowed domains,  **litware.com** is listed.



#### Task 4: Configure the meeting invitation settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Skype for Business admin center, click  **online meetings** and then click **meeting invitation**.

2. In the  **Help URL** text box, type **http://help.adatum.com**.

3. In the  **Footer text** text box, type **Sample legal disclaimer**. Click  **save**.

4. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-CsMeetingConfiguration
  ```

5. Verify that the  **Help URL** and **CustomFooterText** display the correct information.

6. In Windows PowerShell, type the following command, press Enter, and then close Windows PowerShell.

  ```
  Remove-PSSession $Session
  ```



#### Task 5: Validate the meeting invitation settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, click  **Start**, type ** Skype**, and then open Skype for Business 2016.

2. In the Skype for Business window, click  **Change**. In the  **Sign-in address** box, type **Holly@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** and then click **OK**.

3. Type  **Pa55w.rd** for password and then click **Signin**. Click  **Yes**.

4. Open Microsoft Outlook 2016.

5. On the ribbon, click  **New Items**, click  **Meeting**, and then click  **Skype Meeting**.

6. In the  **To** text box, type **Ada**. 

7. Create a meeting request for some time tomorrow using a subject of  **Test Meeting**.

8. Send the meeting request.

9. Open the calendar, and then double-click the meeting that you just created. Verify that the meeting contains the custom footer text and that the help link references http://help.adatum.com.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online service settings. 


## Exercise 2: Configuring Skype for Business Online user settings
  
#### Task 1: Configure Skype for Business user settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, navigate to the Office 365 admin center.

2. On the menu to the left, click  **Users**, and then click  **Active users**. Select  **Christie Thomas**, and then click  **Edit** in the Product licenses section.

3. Turn off  **Skype for Business Online (Plan 2)**,  **Skype for Business Cloud PBX** and **Skype for Business PSTN Conferencing**. Click  **Save**, and then click  **Close** twice.

4. On the menu to the left, select  **Admin centers**, and then click  **Skype for Business**.

5. On the menu to the left, click  **Users**.

6. Verify that Christie Thomas is not listed as a Skype for Business user. You may need to refresh the window.

7. Select  **Ada** **Russell**, and then click  **Edit**.

8. On the  **general** tab, under Audio and video, clear **Record conversations and meetings**.

9. On the menu to the left, click  **external communications**, clear  **External Skype users**, and then click  **save**.

10. Click the  **back** icon, select **Francisco Chaves**, and then click  **Edit**.

11. On the  **general** tab, under Audio and video, select **Audio only** from the drop-down list box. Click **save**.

12. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 2: Verify Skype for Business communications
  
1. On LON-CL4, ensure that you are signed in as Ada. Open Outlook 2016.

2. On the Welcome to Outlook 2016 page, click  **Next**.

3. On the Add an Email Account page, click  **Next**. If the Office installation wizard launches, wait for the installation to finish, and then continue. 

4. On the Auto Account Setup page, fill in the following information, and then click  **Next**:

  - Your Name:  **Ada** **Russell**
  - E-mail address:  **Ada@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**
  - Retype Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

5. In the Microsoft Outlook dialog box, type  **Pa55w.rd** as the password, select **Remember my credentials**, and click  **OK**. 

6. Click  **Finish**.

7. Open Skype for Business 2016.

8. Click  **Skip for now**.

9. Sign in as  **Ada@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

10. Save the sign-in information. In the Help Make Skype for Business Better! dialog box, click  **No**.

11. On LON-CL1, ensure that you are signed in as Holly, and verify that Outlook 2016 and Skype for Business 2016 are open.

12. In Outook 2016, create a Skype meeting request for a meeting that will start within the next 15 minutes, and then send the request to Ada Russell.

13. In Skype for Business, in the  **Find someone** text box, type **Ada**.

14. Double-click  **Ada** **Russell** to open an IM window.

15. Type a message, and then press Enter.

16. On LON-CL4, verify that the IM from Holly is received and respond to it. 

17. In Outlook 2016, accept Holly's meeting request. 

18. Open the meeting, and then click  **Join Skype Meeting**.

19. Click  **Don't join audio**, and then click  **OK**.

20. Verify that Ada is connected to the meeting.

21. On LON-CL1, open the meeting request, click  **Join Skype Meeting**, and then click  **Don't join audio**, and click  **OK**.

22. Verify that Holly is connected to the meeting.

23. On LON-CL1, in the meeting window, click the  **Present** icon, and then click **Present Desktop**.

24. In the Present Desktop window, click  **Present**.

25. In the Skype for Business window, click  **OK**.

26. On LON-CL4, verify that Holly's desktop is visible in the meeting window.

27. On LON-CL4, disconnect from the meeting.

28. On LON-CL1, disconnect from the meeting.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online user settings and validated Skype for Business Online functionality.


## Exercise 3: Configuring a Skype Meeting Broadcast
  
#### Task 1: Configure a Skype Meeting Broadcast
  
1. On LON-CL1, open a new tab in the Microsoft Edge browser.

2. Connect to  **https://broadcast.skype.com**, and then, if needed, sign in as  **holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. In the Skype Meeting Broadcast window, click  **New Meeting**.

4. In the Meeting details window, fill in the following information:

  - Meeting title:  **Test broadcast meeting**
  - Meeting time:  **Today's** **date**
  - Start time:  **Within** **the next 15** **minutes**
  - Duration:  **1 hour**
  - Members:  **Beth** **Burke**
  - Access:  **Invitation only**
  - Attendees:  **Ada** **Russell**

5. Scroll back to the top of the window, and then click  **Create**.

6. In the Skype Meeting Broadcast window, click  **Create Outlook invitation**,  **Save**, and then click  **Open**.

7. If the  **How do you want to open this file**? window appears, ensure that  **Outlook 2016** is selected, and click **OK**. 

8. In the Test broadcast meeting -Meeting window, click  **Send Update**.



#### Task 2: Validate the Skype Meeting Broadcast configuration
  
1. On LON-CL3, ensure that you are signed in as Beth. Open Outlook 2016. 

2. On the Welcome to Outlook 2016 page, click  **Next**.

3. On the Add an Email Account page, click  **Next**.

4. On the Auto Account Setup page, fill in the following information, and then click  **Next**:

  - Your Name:  **Beth** **Burke**
  - E-mail address:  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**
  - Retype Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

5. In the Microsoft Outlook dialog box, type  **Pa55w.rd** as the password, select **Remember my credentials**, and click  **OK**. 

6. Click  **Finish**.

7. Open Skype for Business 2016.

8. Click  **Skip for now**.

9. Sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

10. Save the sign-in information. In the Help Make Skype for Business Better! dialog box, click  **No**.

11. Open PowerPoint 2016. Select the option to create a blank presentation.

12. Type a title for the presentation, and then save the presentation to the Documents folder using the name  **Presentation.pptx**.

13. Close PowerPoint 2016.

14. In Outlook, click the broadcast meeting request from Holly Spencer, click  **Accept**. 

15. In the Reminders pop-up window, double-click the meeting request from Holly.

16. Click  **Join the Meeting**. 

17. In the Skype for Business window, sign in as  **Beth@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Join the event**.

18. In the  **Did you mean to switch apps?** window, click **Yes**.

19. In the Join Meeting Audio dialog box, click  **Don't join audio** and click **OK**. 

20. Ignore the warning about setting up an audio device.

21. In the Meeting window, click  **Share Content**, and then click  **Share PowerPoint Files**.

22. Browse to the  **Documents** folder, click **Presentation.pptx**, and then click  **Open**.

23. In the right side of the meeting window, click  **Content only**, and then click  **Start Broadcast**. 

    > **Note:** The steps for validating the configuration are provided for informational purposes only. They will not function the lab environment due to a requirement for a video and audio device. You can use your physical device to run the broadcast, if you wish.

24. Click  **Start Broadcast** again. Wait for the broadcast to start.

25. On LON-CL4, signed in as Ada, in Outlook 2016, accept the meeting request from Holly. 

26. Open the meeting request, and then click  **Join the Meeting**.

27. In the Skype for Business window, sign in as  **Ada@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Join the event**.

28. On LON-CL3, in the broadcast window, click  **Stop Broadcast**, and then click  **Stop Broadcast** again.

29. On both LON-CL1 and LON-CL4, disconnect from the meeting.

30. Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured a broadcast meeting and verified that users can join the meeting.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  