# Lab Answer Key:  Module 10: Planning and configuring an Office 365 collaboration solution
# Lab: Planning and configuring an Office 365 collaboration solution
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring Yammer Enterprise
  
#### Task 1: Configure a Yammer organization setting
  
1. In  **LON-CL1**, click  **Desktop**, open Microsoft Edge from the taskbar, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** (where _yy_xxxxx is your unique A. Datum number) with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

3. Click the  **Office 365 app launcher** icon, and then click **Yammer**.

4. On the  **WHO DO YOU WORK WITH?** page, click the **X** at the top-right corner to close the page.

5. In Yammer, in the left pane beside Holly Dickson, click the  **Settings** icon.

6. Click  **NETWORK ADMIN.**

7. In Yammer admin center, in the left navigation pane, click  **Usage Policy**.

8. In the  **Usage Policy** window, select the **Require users to accept policy during sign up and after any changes are made to the policy** check box.

9. In the  **Usage Policy** window, select the **Display policy reminder in sidebar** check box.

10. In the  **Custom Policy Title** text box, type **Adatum** **Acceptable Use Policy**.

11. In the  **Enter your policy in the textbox below** text box, copy and paste the following text:

  **Welcome to Yammer! Our goal is to provide a collaborative environment to connect with colleagues and bridge various departments and geographic locations to share meaningful information**.

12. Click  **Save**.

13. In the  **Adatum Acceptable Use Policy** window, click **I Accept**. 

14. If needed, in Yammer, in the left pane beside Holly Dickson, click the  **Settings** icon, and then click **NETWORK ADMIN**.

15. In the left menu of the Yammer console, click  **Configuration**.

16. In the  **Email Settings** section, click **A weekly digest of your group messages**.

17. In the  **Enabled Features** page, remove the check mark from **3rd Party Applications**.

18. Click  **Save**.

19. In the left-side menu of the Yammer console, click  **Data Retention**.

20. In the  **Data Retention Policy** page, read the description of available options and click **Soft Delete** and then click **Save**.

21. In the left menu of the Yammer console, click  **Monitor Keywords**.

22. In the  **Monitor Keywords** page, type **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** in the **Email Address** field.

23. In the text box below, type the following words, one in each line:  **gambling**, ** erotic**, ** warez**.

24. Click  **Save**.

25. In the left menu of the Yammer console, click  **Success**.

26. Click  **Write a welcome message** in the middle pane.

27. Click  **All Company**, and in the middle pane, in the  **What are you working on?** text box, type: **Welcome to all Adatum users!**, and then click  **Post**.



#### Task 2: Configure Yammer service settings, and enforce Office 365 identity
  
1. In Yammer, in the left pane, click the  **Settings** icon.

2. Click  **NETWORK ADMIN**.

3. In Yammer admin center, in the left navigation pane in the  **Content and Security** section, click ** Security** **Settings**.

4. Scroll down to  **Office365 Identity Enforcement**. 

5. Select the  **Enforce Office 365 identity** check box.

6. In the pop-up window, click  **Okay.**

7. Click  **Save**.



#### Task 3: Configure the Yammer user experience
  
1. In Yammer, in the left pane, click the  **Settings** icon, and then click **EDITSETTINGS**.

2. In the toolbar, click  **Notifications**.

3. In the  **Send me a digest of message activity** drop-down list, click **weekly**.

4. Select only the following options in the  **Email me when...** section:

  -  **I receive a message in my inbox**
  -  **I log in from somewhere new**
  -  **I post a message via email (This will send a confirmation email)**

5. Click  **Save**.

6. Close Microsoft Edge.


#### Task 4: Using Yammer
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. On the Office 365 portal, click  **Yammer**.

4. At the  **WHO DO YOU WORK WITH** prompt, type **Christie** in the first text box, and then click **DONE** and close the window.

5. Click  **I Accept** at the **Adatum Acceptable Use Policy** prompt.

6. Find the post from Holly Dickson in the post list.

7. Click  **Like**, and then click  **SHARE**.

8. In the  **Share This Conversation** dialog box, select **Post in a Group**, type  **All Company** in the drop-down box, and then in the text box, type **Welcome from me too**.

9. Click  **Share**.

10. Click  **All Company** and in the **What are you working on** text box, type " **free gambling here"**, and then click  **Post**.

11. Close Microsoft Edge.

12. Open Microsoft Edge and browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

13. Sign in as  **Holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

14. On the Office 365 portal, click  **Mail**.

15. Verify that you received a message from Yammer with a report about a monitored keyword appearance in Beth's post.

16. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have enabled Yammer Enterprise for A. Datum Corporation.


## Exercise 2: Configuring OneDrive for Business
  
#### Task 1: Enable OneDrive for Business synchronization
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, click  **Start**, click  **All apps**, and then click  **Word 2016**. 

2. In the  **Word** window, in the top right corner, verify that Word is licensed to Beth Burke.

3. If Word is licensed to another account, click  **Switch account**.

4. In the  **Accounts** dialog box, click **SIGN OUT**, and then click  **Sign out**. In the  **Remove Account** notice, click **Yes**. 

5. At the top right, click  **Sign in to get the most out of Office**.

6. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **E-mail address** box, type **Beth@AdatumYYXXXXX.hostdomain.com**, and then click  **Next**.

7. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**.

8. Verify that Word is now licensed to Beth. Close Word.

9. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

10. Sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

11. On the Office 365 portal, click  **OneDrive**.

12. If the  **Welcome to OneDrive for Business** page appears, click **Next**.

13. In the  **OneDrive** window, click **New**, and then click  **Word document**.

14. In the  **Word Online** window, type some text, and then click **Beth** **Burke** at the top of the window beside Word Online.

15. In the  **OneDrive** window, click **Sync**.

16. In the  **Did you mean to switch apps?** dialog box, click **Yes**.

17. In the  **Sync** **your OneDrive files to this PC** dialog box, click **Start sync**.

18. If prompted to sign in, type  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and then click  **Next**. 

19. Type  **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign In**.

20. Click  **File Explorer** on the task bar, and then click **OneDrive - A. Datum**.

21. Note that File Explorer displays the location where the synchronized files will be stored. Verify that the Word document has been synchronized to the local computer.



#### Task 2: Create files to synchronize with OneDrive for Business
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, ensure that the  **OneDrive for Business** folder is open in File Explorer.

2. On the ribbon in File Explorer, click  **Home**, click ** New folder**, and then create a new folder named  **Private**.

3. On the ribbon, click  **Home,** click **New folder**, and then create a second new folder named  **Project A**.

4. Double-click the  **Private** folder. Right-click in this folder, and on the context menu, click **New**, and then click ** Microsoft Word Document**. Name the document  **Holidays.docx**.

5. Double-click  **Holidays.docx** to open it, and then type some short text. Save the changes, and then close Microsoft Word.

6. See how the document icon in the File Explorer window changes from two blue arrows to a small green check mark icon after the synchronization process is complete. The document has been transferred to the cloud storage automatically.

7. In the File Explorer window, navigate to  **OneDrive** **for Business** in the navigation address line to move one level up.

8. Double-click the folder  **Project A**. Right-click in this folder, and on the context menu, click  **New**, and then click ** Microsoft Word Document**. Name the document  **Project targets.docx**.

9. Double-click  **Project targets.docx** to open it, and then type some short text. Save the changes, and then close Microsoft Word.

10. Verify that the document synchronizes. 

11. To view the files online, switch to the Microsoft Edge window. Refresh the view.

12. In the  **Files** list, you should see your two folders, **Private** and **Project A**.

13. Navigate to the  **Private** folder. Click the synchronized document **Holidays.docx** to open it in Word Online.

14. Click  **Edit** **document**, and then click  **Edit** **in Browser**. Add some text. The document is saved automatically when  **Saved** is displayed in the title bar.

15. In the menu bar right beside Word Online, click  **Beth** **Burke** to return to OneDrive for Business.

16. The content of the  **Private** folder changes, and you will see that you changed the document online. The **Modified** column shows that the document changed some seconds (or minutes) ago.

17. Switch back to File Explorer. Navigate to the  **Private** folder, and then open **Holidays.docx**. You will see that the changes you made in Word Online are synchronized back automatically. 



#### Task 3: Share files with other users
  
1. In File Explorer, right-click the folder  **Project A**, click  **View online**.

2. Microsoft Edge opens. Open the  **Project A** folder, right-click **Project Targets.docx**, and then click  **Share**.

3. SharePoint Online automatically opens a dialog box named  **ShareProject targets**. **docx**.

4. In the upper text box, type  **Holly Dickson**.

5. Ensure that the text  **Anyone with this link can edit this item** is show, add a short message in the message text box below, and then click **Share**.

6. Open a new InPrivate Microsoft Edge window, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**. 

7. Sign in as  **Holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

8. In the Office 365 portal, click  **Mail**.

9. Click the message with the subject  **Beth** **Burke** **has shared Project Targets**. 

10. In the message box, click  **Project Targets**. 

11. When the document opens, click  **Edit** **in Browser**. Verify that you can open the document and edit it. All modifications are stored online in the OneDrive for Business cloud storage. By default, SharePoint Online creates a new version when the document changes. This can be viewed by the owner in the version history. 

12. Close the InPrivate Microsoft Edge window. 

13. In the Microsoft Edge window, click the  **Shared** button of **Project targets** in Sharing column.

14. In the menu on the right click  **Stop sharing** and then click **Stop sharing** again.

15. Close the Microsoft Edge window.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Microsoft OneDrive for A. Datum.


## Exercise 3: Configuring Office 365 groups
  
#### Task 1: Configure a private Office 365 group
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, sign in to  **http://portal.office.com** as **Holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Open the Office 365 admin center through the app launcher by clicking the  **Admin** icon.

3. Select  **Groups** in the left navigation pane, click **Groups**, and then click  **Add a group**.

4. In the  **Add a group** window, verify that **Office 365 group** is selected in the **Type** drop-down list.

5. In the  **Add a** **group** window, configure the following settings:

  - Name:  **AdatumMarketing**
  - E-Mail:  **Adatummarketing@ AdatumYY _XXXX_.hostdomain.com**
  - Description:  **Adatum** **Marketing Group**
  - Under  **Privacy**, select  **Private - Only members can see group content**.
  - Set the language to  **English (United Kingdom)**
  - Group owner:  **Holly Dickson**

6. Click  **Add**.

7. Click  **Close**.

8. Click on  **AdatumMarketing**, and in the  **Details** window, in the **Members** section, click **Edit**.

9. Click  **Add members**, and then click  **Beth** **Burke**.

10. Click  **Save**, and then click  **Close**.



#### Task 2: Configure a public Office 365 group with Windows PowerShell
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, right-click  **Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell** on the desktop and click **Run as Administrator**.

2. Type the following command, and then press Enter: 

  ```
  $cred = Get-Credential
  ```

3. In the Windows PowerShell credential request window, sign in as  **Holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

4. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $session = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri https://outlook.office365.com/powershell-liveid/ -Credential $cred -Authentication Basic -AllowRedirection
  ```

5. Type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Import-PSSession $Session -AllowClobber
  ```

6. To create a new public Office 365 group, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  New-UnifiedGroup -DisplayName "Planning Group" -Alias "PlanningGroup" -EmailAddresses PlanningGroup@AdatumYYXXXX.hostdomain.com
  ```

7. To add a user to the owners group, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Add-UnifiedGroupLinks "Planning Group" -Links Holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com  -LinkType Owner
  ```

8. To add a user to the members group, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Add-UnifiedGroupLinks "Planning Group" -Links Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com  -LinkType Member
  ```

9. Type the following command, press Enter, and then close Windows PowerShell.

  ```
  Remove-PSSession $Session
  ```


#### Task 3: Explore the Office 365 group components
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, open  **Microsoft Edge**, and then sign in to  **https://portal.office.com** as **Holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Click the app launcher in the upper-left corner.

3. Click  **Mail**.

4. On the left pane, click  **Planning Group**, and then click  **Start a conversation**. If pop-up window is blocked, click  **Always allow**.

5. In the message window, type  **HollyDickson** in the **To** line, type a subject and some content, and then click **Send**.

6. Click  **Calendar** on the toolbar, and then view the group calendar.

7. Click  **New**. In the  **Details** pane, fill out the data for the meeting, type **Planning meeting** for the subject, schedule it for tomorrow, and then click **Save**.

8. Ensure that the calendar item synchronizes with Holly's personal calendar. 

9. Click the  **Office365 apps** icon, and then click **Mail**.

10. In the navigation pane, select  **Planning Group**.

11. Click  **Files** on the toolbar, and then wait for the files store to be created. It should take few minutes.

12. Click  **New**, and then click  **NewWord document**. 

13. Type some text, and when you see  **Saved** in the title bar, close the Microsoft Edge tab.

14. In the  **Mail** window, click **Files**, and then verify that the document has been added to the group.

15. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and then sign in to  **https://portal.office.com** as **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. Select  **English (United States)** for language and select your time zone and click **Save**.

16. Click  **Mail**. Verify that the  **AdatumMarketing** group appears in your **Groups** list.

17. Under Groups, click  **Browse** or ** Discover**.

18. Click  **Planning Group**, and then click  **Join**. Because this is a public group, you can join the group.

19. In the left navigation pane, click  **Planning Group**, and then click  **Conversations**. Verify that you see the message that Holly sent to the group.

20. Click  **Files**, and then verify that you see the document that Holly created.

21. Close Microsoft Edge.

22. Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Microsoft Office 365 groups at A. Datum.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  