# Module 7: Planning and configuring Exchange Online services
# Lab A: Configuring message transport in Exchange Online
  
### Scenario
  
The pilot project is going well at A. Datum Corporation. However, before you finish the pilot project and perform a full deployment, you need to confirm that you can configure Exchange Online settings to match the on-premises settings for options such as message transport.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure message transport settings.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 35 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1,** **20347A-LON-DS1,** **20347A-LON-CL1, 20347A-LON-CL2**

User name:  **Adatum\Administrator, Adatum\Holly, LON-CL2\Francisco**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **AdatumYY _XXXX_.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **AdatumYY _XXXX_** with your unique Office 365 Name that displays in the online lab portal.

- Additionally, where you see references to  **yourdomain.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **youdomain **with your unique hostdomain.com Name that displays in the online lab portal.


Please use only the virtual machines that your lab requires. This lab requires the following virtual machines:

- LON-DC1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\Holly** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL2

  - Sign in as  **LON-CL2\Francisco** using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Configuring message-transport settings
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum has several email transport settings configured in their on-premises Exchange environment. You need to ensure that you also can configure the same settings in Exchange Online, including:

- A custom send and receive connector that will enforce TLS when sending email messages to, or receiving them from, a partner organization.
- A transport rule that will apply a disclaimer to all messages sent to external users
- A transport rule that requires moderator approval for all messages sent to the manager distribution list.
- A journal rule that will retain a copy of all messages sent to and from members of the Development department.


You also need to verify that you can track messages sent between users on Office 365 and sent to external users.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a custom send and receive connector to enforce TLS

2. Create transport rules

3. Create a journal rule for members of the research department

4. Track internal and external message delivery


#### Task 1: Create a custom send and receive connector to enforce TLS
  
1. Use Microsoft Edge to sign in to Exchange admin center as  **Holly@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.

2. In the Exchange admin center, browse to  **connectors** in **mail flow**.

3. Create a new connector with the following settings:

  - Name:  **Humongous Insurance Outgoing**
  - From:  **Office 365**
  - To:  **Partner organization**
  - For email sent to:  **humongousinsurance.com**
  - Use MX records for delivery
  - Require TLS using a certificate from a trusted CA
  - Validation email:  **postmaster@humongousinsurance.com**

  >  **Note:** Validation of mail flow will fail because the connector is to a fictitious organization. This is expected behavior for this lab.

4. Create a new connector with the following settings:

  - Name:  **Humongous Insurance Incoming**
  - From:  **Partner organization**
  - To:  **Office 365**
  - For email received from:  **humongousinsurance.com**
  - Reject messages that do not use TLS



#### Task 3: Create transport rules
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, create a new disclaimer rule with the following settings:

  - Name:  **A. Datum Disclaimer**
  - Apply the rule if:  **The recipient is located Outside the organization**
  - Disclaimer text:  **&lt;HR&gt; If you are not the intended recipient of this message, you must delete it**

2. Create a new rule that sends messages to a moderator, with the following settings:

  - Name:  **Moderate Managers**
  - Apply the rule if:  **The recipient is a member of Managers**
  - Do the following:  **Forward the message for approval to Holly Dickson**

3. On LON-CL2, use Microsoft Edge to sign in to Outlook on the web as  **Francisco@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

4. Send a message to alias@outlook.com **,** where alias@outlook.com is the Microsoft account that you configured at the beginning of this course, and then verify that the disclaimer was added.

5. Send a message to  **Martina** to test the moderation rule.

6. On LON-CL1, open Outlook 2016, read the approval request, and then approve it.



#### Task 4: Create a journal rule for members of the research department
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, browse to  **journal rules** in **compliance management**.

2. Configure undeliverable journal reports to be sent to Holly Dickson.

3. Create a new journal rule with the following settings:

  - Send journal reports to:  **journal@humongousinsurance.com**
  - Name:  **Development messages**
  - If the message is sent to or received from: the  **Development** group
  - Journal all messages



#### Task 5: Track internal and external message delivery
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, browse to  **message trace** in **mail flow**.

2. Perform a search with the default settings.

3. Review the most recent message sent from Francisco to  **alias@outlook.com**, and then verify that the disclaimer was applied.

4. Review the most recent message sent from Francisco to Martina **,** and then verify that the message was sent for moderation.


>  **Result**: After completing the exercise, you will have configured message-transport settings.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why did you configure the journal rule to send messages to journal@humongousinsurance.com instead of an Office 365 mailbox?

**Question** 
What formatting options are there for disclaimers in a transport rule?

**Question** 
Selecting the Enable safe list option in the connection filter reduces the risk of false positives. 

**Question** 
What is the difference between spam and high-confidence spam?

**Question** 
How does Office 365 differentiate between public and private computers that attempt to connect to it?

**Question** 
The default configuration for mobile devices quarantines all devices until an administrator approves them.

**Question** 
Your organization currently is using Gmail and Google Docs, and has decided to migrate to Office 365 for email and file sharing. Which migration type should you use so your end users experience the least amount of downtime?

- Cutover Exchange migration

- Staged Exchange migration

- IMAP migration

- PST migration

- Full hybrid configuration

**Question** 
Your organization has an on-premises Exchange Server 2010 deployment, and wants to migrate to Office 365. Your organization has 3,000 mailboxes, with an average mailbox size of 1 GB. Which migration type should you use?

- Cutover Exchange migration

- Staged Exchange migration

- IMAP migration

- PST migration

- Full hybrid configuration

**Question** 
A cutover migration batch continues synchronizing until you remove it.



# Lab B: Configuring email protection and client policies
  
### Scenario
  
The pilot project is going well at A. Datum. Before finishing it and moving into a full deployment, you need to confirm that you can configure the Exchange Online settings to match the on-premises settings for options such as anti-spam and antivirus settings, and client access policies.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will have:

- Configured anti-spam and antivirus settings

- Configured client access policies

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 35 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1**,  **20347A-LON-DS1**,  **20347A-LON-CL1, 20347A-LON-CL2**

User name:  **Adatum\Administrator**, ** Adatum\Holly**, and  **LON-CL2\Francisco**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **AdatumYY _XXXX_.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **AdatumYY _XXXX_** with your unique Office 365 Name that displays in the online lab portal.

- Where you see references to  **yourdomain.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **yourdomain **with your unique hostdomain.com Name that displays in the online lab portal.


 Please use only the virtual machines that your lab requires. This lab requires the following virtual machines: 

- LON-DC1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\Holly** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL2

  - Sign in as  **LON-CL2\Francisco** using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Configuring email protection
  
### Scenario
  
You also need to explore the anti-spam and antivirus settings that are available in Exchange Online, and you must

- Configure a policy to ensure that an administrator account is notified when Exchange Online receives a message that contains malware. 

- Ensure that internal users are notified when their messages are not delivered.

- Ensure that you can block all email from IP addresses that you specify.

- Ensure that Sales users receive all messages, even if there is a high likelihood that the message is spam.

- Ensure that Exchange Online quarantines all messages for other users if there is a high probability that the message is spam.

- Enable Advanced Threat Protection for users in the Sales department. 


The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure the malware filter

2. Configure the connection filter

3. Configure the spam filter

4. Test the spam-filter settings (optional)

5. Enable Advanced Threat Protection



#### Task 1: Configure the malware filter
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, browse to  **malware filter** in **protection**.

2. Modify the Default malware filter to:

  - Notify internal senders when a message is blocked
  - Notify  **Holly@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** when messages from internal or external senders are blocked



#### Task 2: Configure the connection filter
  
- On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, configure the  **Default** connection filter with the following settings:

  - IP Block list:  **192.168.0.0/24**
  -  **Enable safe list**



#### Task 3: Configure the spam filter
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, modify the  **Default** spam filter to quarantine high-confidence spam.

2. Create a new spam filter with the following settings:

  - Name:  **Sales spam policy**
  - Spam:  **Prepend subject line with text**
  - High confidence spam:  **Move message to Junk Email folder**
  - Prepend subject line with this text:  **Junk:**
  - Applied to: members of  **Sales** group



#### Task 4: Test the spam-filter settings (optional)
  
1. Sign in to your alias@outlook.com accounts.

2. Create a new message to send to  **kendra@Yourdomain.hostdomain.com**.

3. In the body of the message, include the text  **XJS*C4JDBQADN1.NSBN3*2IDNEN*GTUBE-STANDARD-ANTI-UBE-TEST-EMAIL*C.34X**, and then send the message.

4. Create a new message to send to  **francisco@Yourdomain.hostdomain.com**.

5. In the body of the message, include the text  **XJS*C4JDBQADN1.NSBN3*2IDNEN*GTUBE-STANDARD-ANTI-UBE-TEST-EMAIL*C.34X**, and then send the message.

6. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, browse to  **quarantine** in **protection**.

7. Verify that the message sent to Francisco is in quarantine, but the message sent to Kendra is not.

8. Release the message sent to Francisco.

9. On LON-CL2, in Outlook on the web, verify that the message was delivered to Francisco.



#### Task 5: Enable Advanced Threat Protection
  
1. Switch to LON-CL1 computer.

2. In the Exchange admin center, create a new  **safe attachments** policy in **advanced threats** with the following settings:

  - Name:  **Sales policy**
  - Safe attachments unknown malware response:  **Replace - Block the attachments with detected malware, continue to deliver the message**
  - Applied to if:  **The recipient is a member of Sales**

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured anti-spam and antivirus settings.


## Exercise 2: Configuring client access policies
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum wants to be able to restrict some options for Outlook on the Web and mobile clients. You need to configure policies for Outlook Web App, mobile device access, and mailboxes. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure an Outlook Web App policy

2. Configure mobile-device access

3. Configure a mailbox policy for mobile devices 

4. Validate mobile-device management policies (optional)



#### Task 1: Configure an Outlook Web App policy
  
1.  On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, browse to the Outlook Web App policies in permissions.

2. Create a new Outlook Web App policy named  **Limited features** with the following features disabled:

  -  **Instant messaging**
  -  **Text messaging**
  -  **Unified messaging**
  -  **LinkedIn contact sync**
  -  **Journaling**
  -  **Direct file access** for private computers.

3. Associate the  **Limited features** Outlook Web App policy with **Kendra Sexton**.

4. In Outlook, create a new message for  **Kendra Sexton,** and the attach the C:\Windows\Logs\DISM\dism.log file.

5. On LON-CL2, sign out of Outlook on the web, and then sign in again as  **Kendra@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

6. Verify that Kendra is unable to access the attachment in the new message.

>  **Note:** In some cases, it may take a few minutes for the new Outlook Web App mailbox policy to take effect.


#### Task 2: Configure mobile-device access
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Exchange admin center, browse to  **mobile device access** in **mobile**.

2. Edit the Exchange ActiveSync Access settings to quarantine new mobile devices and notify  **Holly Dickson**.



#### Task 3: Configure a mailbox policy for mobile devices
  
1. On LON-CL1, browse to  **mobile device mailbox policies** in **mobile**.

2. Modify the Default policy to:

  -  **Require a password**
  -  **Allows simple passwords**
  -  **Minimum password length** of **4**



#### Task 4: Validate mobile-device management policies (optional)
  
1. On your mobile device, add a new ActiveSync account for Francisco Chaves.

2. If Autodiscover does not detect the server name, enter  **outlook.office365.com**.

3. Your device will be placed into quarantine, and you must approve the device before you can send and receive messages.

4. After you configure the Exchange ActiveSync account, the security settings from the mobile device mailbox policy will apply, and you may be prompted to create a password on your device.

5. When you are done testing, you can delete the account from your mobile device.

6. Leave the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured client access policies.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why did you configure different anti-spam settings for members of the sales group?

**Question** 
Why is it important to require a password on mobile devices?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  