# Module 6: Planning and managing Exchange Online recipients and permissions
# Lab: Managing Exchange Online recipients and permissions
  
### Scenario
  
 A. Datum Corporation is ready to move the second group of pilot users to Office 365. Before completing the move, you must ensure that you can manage Exchange recipients in Exchange Online. You also must ensure that you can delegate permissions in Exchange Online.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to: 

- Configure Exchange Online recipients.
- Delegate administrative permissions.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1, 20347A-LON-DS1,** **20347A-LON-CL1**

User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator, Adatum\\Holly**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **AdatumYY _XXXX_.hostdomain.com**, replace  **AdatumYY _XXXX_** with your unique Office 365 Name displayed in the online lab portal.
- Where you see references to  **yourdomain.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **AdatumYY _XXXX_**with your unique hostdomain.com Name displayed in the online lab portal.


This lab requires the following virtual machines: (use only the VMs required for your lab)

- LON-DC1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Configuring Exchange Online recipients
  
### Scenario
  
In preparation for migrating more users to Office 365, you need to ensure that you can manage Exchange Online recipients by using the Exchange admin center and Windows PowerShell.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create user mailboxes

2. Connect to Exchange Online with Windows PowerShell

3. Create groups and assign members

4. Create resource mailboxes

5. Configure additional Exchange Online recipients



#### Task 1: Create user mailboxes
  
1. On LON-CL1, in Internet Explorer, navigate to https://portal.office.com/ and sign in as  **holly@yourdomain.hostdomain.com**, with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Open the Office 365 admin center. 

3. Create a new user, Martina Blair, with the following settings:

  - First name:  **Martina**
  - Last name:  **Blair**
  - Display name:  **Martina Blair**
  - User name:  **Martina**
  - Domain:  **yourdomain.hostdomain.com**
  - Location:  **United Kingdom**
  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**
  - Make this user change their password when the first sign in:  **Not selected**
  - Roles:  **User (no administrator access)**
  - Product licenses:  **Office 365 Enterprise E5**

4. Create the following additional user accounts: 

  - Matt Villagomez (since Matt@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com is in use, use the username MattV)
  - Olivia Emerson
  - Kendra Sexton

5. Verify that the new users appear in the Exchange admin center as mailboxes in recipients. 

  >  **Note:** It might take a few minutes for the mailboxes to appear. Click the refresh icon periodically until they do.


#### Task 2: Connect to Exchange Online with Windows PowerShell
  
1. On the desktop, right-click  **Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell**, and then click  **Run as administrator**. 

  >  **Note:** You can copy and paste these commands into the virtual machine.

2. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  $credential = Get-Credential
  ```

3. Sign in as  **holly@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa$$word**.

4. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  Connect-MsolService -Credential $credential
  ```

5. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  $exchangeSession = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri "https://outlook.office365.com/powershell-liveid/" -Credential $credential -Authentication "Basic" -AllowRedirection
  ```

6. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  Import-PSSession $exchangeSession -DisableNameChecking
  ```

7. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  Get-AcceptedDomain
  ```

  >  **Note:** This command returns the list of accepted domains and verifies that you can connect to your Office 365 subscription.


#### Task 3: Create groups and assign members
  
1. In the Windows PowerShell window, type the following command and press Enter to create the IT with Olivia as a member:

  ```
  New-DistributionGroup -Name IT -Members Olivia
  ```

2. Repeat steps 1 to add the following additional groups and members: 

  - **Managers**
    Members:  **Martina**

  - **Development**
    Members:  **MattV**

  - **Sales**
    Members:  **Kendra**



#### Task 4: Create resource mailboxes
  
1. In the Exchange Admin center, open  **resources**. 

2. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  New-Mailbox -Name "Conference Room" -Room
  ```

3. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  Set-CalendarProcessing "Conference Room" -AutomateProcessing AutoAccept
  ```

4. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  New-Mailbox -Name "Demonstration Laptop" -Equipment
  ```

5. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  Set-CalendarProcessing "Demonstration Laptop" -AutomateProcessing AutoAccept
  ```

  >  **Note:** If you receive an error when you run the **Set-CalendarProcessing** cmdlet for either of these objects, wait a few moments and repeat.

6. In the Exchange Admin center, click  **Refresh**. You should be able to see both resources.

7. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  Set-Mailbox "Conference Room" -ResourceCapacity "25"
  ```

8. In Exchange Admin center, click  **Refresh**. You should be able to see the Capacity you configured in the details pane on the right.



#### Task 5: Configure additional Exchange Online recipients
  
1.  On LON-CL1, open **C:\\Labfiles\\ExternalContacts.csv**, review its contents, and close the file.

2. In Exchange admin center, click  **contacts**. 

3. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  CD C:\Labfiles
  ```

  >  **Note:** You can copy and paste these commands into the virtual machine.

4. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  Import-Csv .\Externalcontacts.csv | ForEach-Object {New-MailContact -Name $_.Name -DisplayName $_.Name -ExternalEmailAddress $_.ExternalEmailAddress -FirstName $_.FirstName -LastName $_.LastName}
  ```

5. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  $Contacts = Import-CSV .\ExternalContacts.csv
  ```

6. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  $contacts | ForEach {Set-Contact $_.Name -StreetAddress $_.StreetAddress -City $_.City -StateorProvince $_.StateorProvince -PostalCode $_.PostalCode -Phone $_.Phone -MobilePhone $_.MobilePhone -Pager $_.Pager -HomePhone $_.HomePhone -Company $_.Company -Title $_.Title -OtherTelephone $_.OtherTelephone -Department $_.Department -Fax $_.Fax -Initials $_.Initials -Notes $_.Notes -Office $_.Office -Manager $_.Manager}
  ```

7. In the Exchange admin center, click  **Refresh**. You can see the newly created objects.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have created and configured Microsoft Exchange Online recipients.


## Exercise 2: Configuring role-based access control
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum has delegated some administrative tasks in Exchange Server 2016 on-premises and would like to duplicate this configuration in Exchange Online.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Assign users to built-in role groups

2. Create a new admin role and assign a user to it

3. Create a new role assignment policy

4. Prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Assign users to built-in role groups
  
1. In the Exchange admin center, on the  **permissions** tab, on the **admin roles** tab, click **Organization management**, and then click  **Edit**. 

2. Add  **Olivia** as a member of the role.



#### Task 2: Create a new admin role and assign a user to it
  
1. Switch to Windows PowerShell. 

  >  **Note:** If possible, use the paste functionality provided by the hosting server to copy and paste these commands into the virtual machine.

2. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlets: 

  ```
  Enable-OrganizationCustomization
  ```

  ```
  New-RoleGroup -Name BranchOfficeAdmins -roles "Mail Recipients", "Distribution Groups", "Move Mailboxes", "Mail Recipient Creation"
  ```

3. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  Add-RoleGroupMember "BranchOfficeAdmins" -Member Martina
  ```

4. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following cmdlet: 

  ```
  Get-RoleGroupMember "BranchOfficeAdmins"
  ```

5. In the Exchange admin center, click  **Refresh**. Ensure that you can see the new BranchOffice Admins role group.



#### Task 3: Create a new role assignment policy
  
1. In the Exchange Admin center, click  **user roles**. 

2. Switch to Windows PowerShell. 

  >  **Note:** If possible, use the paste functionality provided by the hosting server to copy and paste these commands into the virtual machine.

3. In the Windows PowerShell window, run the following command: 

  ```
  New-RoleAssignmentPolicy "Limited Mailbox Configuration" -Roles MyBaseOptions,MyAddressInformation,MyDisplayName
  ```

4. To change the default role assignment policy for new mailboxes, in the Windows PowerShell window, run the following command: 

  ```
  Set-RoleAssignmentPolicy "Limited Mailbox Configuration" -IsDefault
  ```

5. When prompted, type  **Y**, and then press Enter.

6. In the Exchange admin center, click  **Refresh**. You can see the new role assignment policy.

7. Type the following command, press Enter, and then close Windows PowerShell.

  ```
  Remove-PSSession $Session
  ```


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
- When you have finished the lab, leave all of the virtual machines running.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured delegated administration of your Exchange Online organization.



## 
  
**Question** 
What Windows PowerShell cmdlet can you use to add a mail-enabled security group to your Exchange Online subscription?

**Question** 
In the lab, you ran the  **Set-CalendarProcessing "Conference Room" -AutomateProcessing AutoAccept** cmdlet. What does the **-AutomateProcessing AutoAccept** switch do?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  