# Lab Answer Key:  Module 5: Planning and deploying Office 365 ProPlus
# Lab: Managing Office 365 ProPlus installations
  
## Exercise 1: Preparing an Office 365 ProPlus managed installation
  
#### Task 1: Download the Office 365 deployment tool
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, on the taskbar, click  **File Explorer**.

2. In  **File Explorer**, click  **Local Disk (C:)** in the left navigation pane

3. In  **File Explorer**, click the  **Home** tab, and then click **New Folder**.

4. Type  **Office16**, and then press Enter.

5. In  **File Explorer**, right-click  **Office16**, click  **Share with**, and then click  **Specific people**.

6. In the  **File Sharing** dialog box, click the drop-down list box, select **Everyone** from the list, click **Add**, and then click  **Share**.

7. In the  **FileSharing** dialog box, click **Done**. 

8. From the taskbar, open the  **Microsoft Edge** browser.

9. In the address bar, type  **https://portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.

10. Sign in as  **holly@Adatum _YYXXXXX.hostdomain.com_**, with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

11. In the  **Office 365 admin center**, in the left panel, click  **Settings**, click  **Services & Add-ins**, then click **Office software download settings**.

12. On the **Office software download settings** page  click **Manually deploy user software**.

13. Under the  **Manually deploy user software** area, click **Learn how to download and deploy software**.

14. In the  **Manually download and install the Office apps by using the** **Office** **Deployment Tool** section, click the **Office Deployment Tool (Office 2016 version)** link to open the Office Deployment Tool download page.

15. On the download page, expand  **Details, System Requirements**, and  **Install Instructions**.

16. Read and familiarize yourself with each section. You can mark this page as a favorite to refer to later.

17. Click  **Download** and notice the information bar at the bottom of the browser.

18. Once the download is completed, click  **Run**.

19. In the User Account Control dialog box, click  **Yes**.

20. Accept the license agreement and click  **Continue**. 

21. Browse to the  **Office16** folder on **This PC's C: drive**.

22. Click  **OK**. You should see that the files were extracted successfully. Click  **OK**.

23. Navigate to the  **Office16** folder with File Explorer. You should see two files in the newly created Office Deployment Tool folder named **configuration** and **setup.**



#### Task 2: Modify an Office 365 ProPlus installation
  
1. In this step, you will back up the Office 16  **configuration.xml** file and then open it so that you can edit it in the next step. To do this, perform the following steps:

  a. In  **File Explorer**, double-click  **C:\\Office16**. 

  b. Right-click **configuration.xml**, and click  **Copy**. Right click again and click  **Paste**. 

  c. Right-click the  **configuration.xml** file, click **Open with**, and then click  **Notepad**. 

2. In  **Notepad**, edit the first Add line after &lt;Configuration&gt; to read  **&lt;Add SourcePath="\\\\LON-CL1\\Office16\\" OfficeClientEdition="32" Branch="Current"&gt;**.

3. In  **Notepad**, remove the following lines of code:

  ```
  <!--  <Updates Enabled="TRUE" Channel="Current" /> -->
  ```

  and

  ```
  <!--  <Property Name="AUTOACTIVATE" Value="1" />  -->
  ```

4. In  **Notepad**, remove **&lt;!-- --&gt;** the comments from the ** &lt;!--  &lt;Display Level="None" AcceptEULA="TRUE" /&gt;  --&gt;** to read:

  ```
  <Display Level="None" AcceptEULA="TRUE" />
  ```

5. Comment out Microsoft Visio with the  **&lt;!-- --&gt;** code to make the download quicker, by replacing this code:

  ```
  </Product>
  <Product ID="VisioProRetail">
  <Language ID="en-us" />
  </Product>
  ```

  with this code:

  ```
  </Product>
  <!--
  <Product ID="VisioProRetail">
  <Language ID="en-us" />
  </Product>
  -->
  ```

6. Save the file as  **AdatumConfiguration.xml**.

  > **Note** Be sure to save the file with the correct **.xml** file extension.

7. Switch to File Explorer (you should still be in the Office16 folder), press Shift, right-click any white space below the file list, and then click  **Open command window here**. 

8. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Setup /?
  ```

9. Note the Office Deployment Tool command-line options. 

10. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  setup.exe /download \\LON-CL1\Office16\AdatumConfiguration.xml
  ```

11. In the  **User Account Control** window, click **Yes**.

12. The download will take several minutes to complete.

13. Switch to File Explorer, and verify that the download has started in the Office16 folder. You can continue with the next task and leave the download in the background.


>  **Result**: You will have downloaded a copy of the Microsoft Office 365 ProPlus install for managed deployment to a shared folder. You will also download and install the Office Deployment Tool on the same machine.


## Exercise 2: Managing user-driven Office 365 ProPlus installations
  
#### Task 1: Managing user rights to install Office 365 ProPlus
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, if required, sign in to  **Office365 admin center** as **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Connect to the Office 365 admin center. 

3. On the  **Office 365** home page, click **Admin**.

4. In the Office 365 admin center, click  **Users**.

5. Select  **Abbi Skinner**, and then next to  **Product licenses**, click  **Edit**.

6. Under  **Set user location**, select  **United Kingdom**, and then enable  **Office 365 Enterprise E5**.

7. Set the  **Office 365 ProPlus** option to **Off**, click  **Save**, and then click  **Close** twice.

8. In the  **Office 365 admin center**, under  **Active users**, click  **Beth Burke**.

9. Beside  **Product licenses**, click  **Edit**.

10. Under  **Location**, select  **United Kingdom**, and then enable  **Office 365 Enterprise E5**.

11. Verify that Beth has permission to use all features.

12. Click  **Save**, and then click  **Close** twice.

13. Repeat steps 8 through 12 for  **Cai Chu**. 

14. In the  **Office 365 admin center**, click  **Home** icon.

15. Under **Office software**, click  **Software download settings**.

16. In the  **Software for PC** section, under **2016 version**, turn off all options. 

17. Click  **Save**, and then  **Close**.

18. On the  **Admin** page, click **Holly Dickson**'s profile photo icon in the top right of the screen, and then click  **Sign Out**.

19. On the  **Sign in** page, at **https://portal.office.com**, sign in as  **abbi@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, using the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

20. On the  **Default Landing** page, click the small Gear icon in the top- right corner, and then click the **Office 365** option.

21. On the  **Office 365 settings** page, click **Software.**

  >  **Note:** Because this user is not licensed for Office 365 ProPlus, Office 2016 is not available for download.

22. Close and reopen  **Microsoft Edge** and connect to **https://portal.office.com**.

23. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Name** box, type **beth@Adatum _yyxxxxx_.hostdomain.com**.

24. In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**.

25. On the default landing page, click the small Gear icon in the top-right corner, and then click  **Office 365**.

26. On the ** Settings** page, click **Software.**

  >  **Note:** This user has a license, but Skype for Business 2016 and Office 2016 are not available for download because Holly disabled Office download.

27. Click  **Phone &amp; tablet**. Verify that  **Phone and tablet** apps are available.

28. Close  **Microsoft Edge**.

29. Open  **Microsoft Edge**.

30. In the address bar, type  **https://portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.

31. Sign in as  **holly@Adatum _yyxxxxx_.hostdomain.com**.

32. Click  **Admin** on the **Office 365** home page.

33. In the  **Office 365 admin center**, click  **Home**.

34. Click  **Software download settings**.

35. Next to the 2016 version, set the value to  **On**. Verify that Office and Skype for Business are both set to on, and click  **Save**. 

36. Click  **Close**. 

37. In  **Microsoft Edge**, on the  **User Software** page, click **Holly Dickson**'s profile photo icon, and then click  **Sign out**.

  >  **Note:** Instead of signing out your admin user every time, you can click the Microsoft Edge browser ellipse menu (...) at the top right of the browser and open a New InPrivate window. This will allow you to have two sessions at a time open

38. Switch to  **LON-CL3**. Verify that you are signed in as Beth.

39. Open  **Microsoft Edge**.

40. In the  **address bar**, type  **https://portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.

41. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Name** box, type **beth@Adatum _YYXXXXX.hostdomain.com_**.

42. In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Signin**. 

43. On the  **Office 365** home page page, click the small Gear icon in the top-right corner, and then click **Office 365**.

44. On the  **Settings** page, click **Software**.

  >  **Note:** This user has a license, and Office 2016 is now available for download.

45. Verify that  **Office** and **Skype for Business** desktop software are available to install.

46. Do not install, but notice that this user can now install the 32-bit version of Office 365 ProPlus and select which language they want to install. They must click  **Advanced** to turn on the 64-bit version option.

47. Note also that  **Phone and tablet** apps are available from the left menu.

48. Leave this page open and continue to the next lab to perform the user-driven installation.



#### Task 2: Installing Office 365 ProPlus from the Office 365 portal
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, if needed, open  **Microsoft Edge** and sign into **Office 365** portal at **portal.office.com**, with the username  **beth@Adatum _yyyxxxxx_ _.hostdomain._com**, click  **Office365 Settings** in upper right corner and then click ** Software**.

2. In the Language section, select the language to install from the drop-down menu.

3. Leave  **32-bit (recommended)** selected.

4. Click  **Install**.

5. In the  **Microsoft Edge** notification bar, click **Save**, and then click  **Run**.

6. If the  **User Account Control** dialog box appears, type **Adatum\\Holly** in the user name box, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Yes**.

7. On the taskbar, click the  **Office** icon, and note the status of the download.

  >  **Note:** It will take several minutes to complete, but applications are now available.

8. Click  **Close** when the wizard finishes.

9. Go to the  **Start** screen.

10. On the  **Start** screen, click **Word 2016**. On the first things first window click  **Accept**.

11. In the top-right corner, if no one is signed in, sign in as  **Beth@adatum _YYXXXXX_.hostdomain.com**, with the password  **Pa55w.rd**, by clicking the link  **Sign in to get most out of office**.

12. Once signed in, your subscription license is activated. At the top right, under  **Beth Burke**, click  **Switch account**.

13. Click  **SIGN OUT**, and then click  **Signout** next to **Beth**'s name.

14. Click  **Yes** in the **Remove Account** dialog box.

15. At the top right, click  **Sign in to get the most out of Office**.

16. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **E-mail address** box, type **holly@Adatum _YYXXXXX.hostdomain.com_**, and then click  **Next**.

17. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**.

18. Click  **Blank document**.

19. Type some text.

20. Click  **File**, then click  **Save**.

21. Click  **Sites - A. Datum** and click **A. Datum** in the right pane.

22. Double-click the  **Documents** folder and then save the file with the name **Meeting Agenda**. 

23. Click  **Save**. You might see a  **streaming features** message.

24. Close  **Word**. 

25. Switch back to  **Beth Burke**'s Office 365 session in Microsoft Edge.

26. In the top-right corner, click the  **Settings** icon, and then click **Office 365 settings**.

27. On the  **Office 365 settings** page, click **Software**.

28. Note that you now have a new section at the top of the page where you can manage Office 365 installs.

29. Click  **Tools &amp; Add-ins.**



#### Task 3: Managing office licenses
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, sign out of Beth's account on the  **Office 365** page.

2. Sign back in as Holly Dickson with the username  **holly@Adatum _YYXXXXX.hostdomain.com_**. 

3. In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**.

4. On the  **Office 365** home page, click **Admin**. 

5. In the  **Office 365 admin center**, click  **Users**, and then click  **Beth Burke**.

6. In the right pane, under  **Product licenses**, click  **Edit**. 

7. Under  **Office 365 Enterprise E5**, set the  **Office 365 ProPlus** option to **Off** to remove the license from Beth's account, click **Save**, and then click  **Close** twice.

8. In  **Microsoft Edge**, at the top right, click the Profile photo icon for  **Holly Dickson**, and then click  **Sign out**.

9. On the  **Sign in** page, type **Beth@Adatum _YYXXXXX.hostdomain._com**.

10. In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**.

11. In the top-right corner, click the  **Settings** icon, and then click **Office 365**.

12. On the  **Settings** page, click **Software**.

13. Note that the Office installation is no longer listed, as this user no longer has an active license (although software is available).

>  **Note:** The Office 365 ProPlus applications will still be available to Beth on any machine on which she already installed them, but within 30 days, they will drop into low-functionality mode. This means she will only be able to read and print documents.


#### Task 4: Reactivating Office 365 ProPlus
  
1. Sign out of the  **Office 365** page, and sign back in as **holly@Adatum _YYXXXXX.hostdomain._com**. 

2. In the  **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**.

3. On the  **Office 365** home page, click the **Admin** tile.

4. In the  **Office 365 admin center**, click  **Users**, and then click  **Beth Burke**.

5. In the right pane, under  **Product licenses**, click  **Edit**. 

6. Under  **Office 365 Enterprise E5**, set the  **Office 365 ProPlus** option to **On**, click  **Save**, and then click  **Close** twice.

7. Close  **Microsoft Edge**.


>  **Result**: When completed, you should be able to activate Office 365 ProPlus for self-service installations. You should also be able to set licensing options correctly for end users so that deployment and installation is possible.


## Exercise 3: Managing centralized Office 365 ProPlus installations
  
#### Task 1: Configure a Group Policy Object (GPO) to distribute the custom installation
  
1. Switch to  **LON-DC1** and connect as **Adatum\\administrator**, with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

2. On  **LON-DC1**, in  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Active Directory Users and Computers**.

3. In the console tree, right-click  **Adatum.com**, point to  **New**, and then click  **Organizational Unit**.

4. Type  **Adatum_Computers**, and then click  **OK**. 

5. In the console tree, under  **Adatum.com**, click  **Computers**.

6. Right-click  **LON-CL4**, click  **Move**, click  **Adatum_Computers**, and then click  **OK**. 

7. In  **Server Manager**, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Group Policy Management**.

8. In the  **Group Policy Management** window, expand **Forest: Adatum.com**, expand  **Domains**, expand  **Adatum.com**, and then click  **Adatum_Computers**.

9. Right-click  **Adatum_Computers**, and then click  **Create a GPO in this domain, and Link it here**.

10. In the  **New GPO** dialog box, in the **Name** box, type **DeployO365**, and then click  **OK**. 

11. In  **Group Policy Management**, click  **Adatum_Computers**, and in the right pane, right-click  **DeployO365**, and then click  **Edit**. If you see a Group Policy Management Console window, click  **OK**.

12. In  **Group Policy Management Editor**, expand  **Computer Configuration**,  **Policies**,  **Windows Settings**, and then double-click  **Scripts (Startup/Shutdown).**

13. Double-click  **Startup**, and then click  **Show Files**.

14. In  **File Explorer**, click  **Home**, click  **New item**, click  **Text Document**, and then press Enter to accept the default name.

15. Double-click  **NewTextDocument.txt**.

16. In  **Notepad**, add the following line:

  ```
  \\LON-CL1\Office16\setup.exe /configure \\LON-CL1\Office16\AdatumConfiguration.xml
  ```

17. Save the file as  **DeployO365.cmd**. Ensure that in  **Save as type**, you select  **All Files** and that the file extension is **.CMD**.

18. Click  **Save**.

19. Close  **Notepad**.

20. Delete  **New Text Document**.

21. Switch back to the  **Group Policy Management Editor**,  **Startup Properties** dialog box.

22. Click  **Add**.

23. In the  **Add a Script** dialog box, click **Browse**.

24. In the  **Browse** dialog box, select **DeployO365.cmd**, and then click  **Open**.

25. In the  **Add a Script** dialog box, click **OK**.

26. In the  **Startup Properties** dialog box, click **OK**.

27. Close  **Group Policy Management Editor**.

28. Note that you could also deploy this script by using Microsoft Intune, Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager, or other electronic software distribution.



#### Task 2: Verifying the installation
  
1. Switch to  **LON-CL4**, and if necessary, and sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth**, with the password,  **Pa55w.rd**. 

2. Right-click the ** Start** button, and click **Command Prompt (Admin)**.

3. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, type **Adatum\\Holly** as the user name and **Pa55w.rd** as the password, and click **Yes**.

4. Type  **gpupdate** **/force** and press Enter.

5. Wait for the Group Policy to update for both the computer and user and then close the command prompt.

6. Restart the computer.

  >  **Note:** If any updates have downloaded, click **Update**, and then restart.

7. Wait five minutes after  **LON-CL4** has restarted before continuing. This is to allow the **Group Policy** settings to take effect on **LON-CL4**.

8. Sign in as  **ADATUM\\Beth** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. You may have to wait for Office to finish installing.

9. Navigate to the  **Start** screen, and note that Office 2016 is installed. You might have to wait up to 15 minutes before you see any available Office applications.

10. Click  **Word 2016**. If you do not see it on the  **Start** screen, type **Word** to bring up the icon.

11. On the  **Activate Office** page, in the **E-mail address** box, type **Beth@Adatum _YYXXXXX.hostdomain._ _com_**, and then click  **Next**.

12. On the  **Sign in** page, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**. Click  **OK** on the notification window.

13. In the  **First things first** dialog box, click **Accept**.

14. Close the  **Welcome to your new Office** dialog box.

15. In the templates list, click  **Blank document**.

16. Type some text.

17. Click  **File**, and then click  **Save**.

18. Click  **Browse** in **This PC - Documents**.

19. In  **File name**, enter  **Meeting Report**, and then click  **Save**. 

20. Right-click the taskbar and then click  **Task Manager**.

21. In  **Task Manager**, click  **More details**.

22. On the  **Processes** tab, under **Background processes**, notice that Microsoft Office Click-to-Run appears. 

23. Click the  **Details** tab, and notice **officeclicktorun.exe** in the task list.

24. Click the  **Services** tab, and notice that the **ClickToRunSvc** service is running.

  >  **Note:** Check **Task Manager** for your deployment. These items will all be present in a successful install.

25. Close  **Task Manager**.

26. Close  **Word 2016**.


>  **Result**: You will have enabled centralized managed deployment of Office 365 ProPlus and implemented a standardized Microsoft Office configuration by using one version of Office.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
