# Lab Answer Key:  Module 11: Planning and configuring Rights Management and compliance
# Lab: Configuring Rights Management and compliance
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring Rights Management in Office 365
  
#### Task 1: Activate Rights Management in Office 365
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [https://portal.office.com](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in to the Microsoft Office 365 portal as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. In the app launcher, click the  **Admin** icon.

4. In the Office 365 admin center, select  **Settings** and then click **Services &amp; add-ins**. 

5. Click  **Microsoft AzureInformation Protection**.

6. On the  **Microsoft Azure Information Protection** page, click **Manage Microsoft** **Azure Information Protection settings**.

7. On the  **rights management** page, click **activate**.

8. When prompted with  **Do you want to activate Rights Management?**, click  **activate.**



#### Task 2: Configure Rights Management for Exchange Online
  
1. Open the Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell from the desktop. 

2. Type the following commands, and then press Enter after each command to connect to remote Exchange Online with remote PowerShell. Use Holly's credentials to connect.

  ```
  $Cred = Get-Credential
  $Session = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri https://outlook.office365.com/powershell-liveid/ -Credential $Cred -Authentication Basic -AllowRedirection 
  Import-PSSession $Session
  ```

3. Type the following command, and then press Enter to set the IRM sharing location to the region you are in.

  ```
  Set-IRMConfiguration -RMSOnlineKeySharingLocation "https://sp-rms.na.aadrm.com/TenantManagement/ServicePartner.svc"
  ```

  >  **Note:** Depending on the location of your tenant, replace the link in the preceding command with one of the following:

    - For Europe: https://sp-Information protection .eu.aadrm.com/TenantManagement/ServicePartner.svc
    - For Asia: https://sp-Information protection .ap.aadrm.com/TenantManagement/ServicePartner.svc
    - For South America: https://sp-Information protection .sa.aadrm.com/TenantManagement/ServicePartner.svc 

4. Type the following command, and then press Enter to configure Azure Information Protection as a trusted publishing domain. 

  ```
  Import-RMSTrustedPublishingDomain -RMSOnline -name "RMS Online"
  ```

5. Type the following command, and then press Enter to set the IRM configuration for licensed users only.

  ```
  Set-IRMConfiguration -InternalLicensingEnabled $true
  ```

6. Type the following command, and then press Enter to test the configuration. 

  ```
  Test-IRMConfiguration -Sender holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
  ```

7. Type the following command, press Enter, and then close Windows PowerShell.

  ```
  Remove-PSSession $Session
  ```



#### Task 3: Configure Rights Management for SharePoint Online
  
1. In Microsoft Edge, access the Office 365 admin center by using App launcher icon.

2. In the left navigation pane, under  **Admin centers**, click  **SharePoint**.

3. In the SharePoint admin center, in the left pane, click  **settings**.

4. On the  **settings** page, in the Information Rights Management (IRM) section, click **Use the IRM service specified in your configuration**, and then click  **Refresh IRM Settings**.



#### Task 4: Validate the Azure Rights Management functionality
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Word 2016. 

2. In the Word window, at the top right corner, click  **Switch account** or ** Sign in**.

3. In the Accounts dialog box, click  **Add Account**.

4. In the Sign in dialog box, type  **Holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and then click  **Next**.

5. Type  **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **Sign in**.

6. Close Word 2016.

7. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Outlook 2016. 

8. Create a new email with  **Beth** **Burke** as the recipient.

9. Type a subject, and then type some text in the message body.

10. On the  **Options** tab, click **Permission**, and then click  **Connect to the Rights Management Server and get templates**. If Windows Security window appears, click  **OK** and sign in with Holly's credentials.

11. Click  **Permission** again, and then click **Do Not Forward**.

12. Send the message.

13. In Microsoft Edge, connect to https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing. 

14. Click  **Documents**, click the  **settings** icon, and then click **Library settings**.

15. On the  **Settings** page, under Permissions and Management, click **Information Rights Management**.

16. On the  **Information Rights Management Settings** page, select the **Restrict permissions on this library on download** checkbox.

17. In the  **Create a permission policy title** box, type **Marketing Policy**.

18. In the  **Add a permission policy description** box, type **Marketing policy for downloads.**

19. Click  **SHOW OPTIONS**.

20. Under Configure document access rights, select the  **Allow viewers to write on a copy of the downloaded document** checkbox.

21. Click  **OK**.

22. Close Microsoft Edge.

23. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**. Sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. 

24. In the Office 365 portal, in the App launcher, click  **Mail**.

25. On the Outlook page, select your time zone and click  **Save**.

26. Verify that you received an email from Holly that is IRM protected. Click the message. 

27. Click the down arrow beside  **Reply all**, and then verify that you do not have the option to forward or print the message. 

28. In Microsoft Edge, connect to https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing. 

29. Click  **Documents**, and then click  **document**.

30. After the document opens, try to edit it in Word Online. Verify that you get a message that the document is read-only.

31. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured Rights Management for Exchange Online and SharePoint Online.


## Exercise 2: Configuring compliance features
  
#### Task 1: Configure Security &amp; Compliance Center permissions and audit logging
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to [https://portal.office.com](https://portal.office.com).

2. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com with the password **Pa55w.rd**

3. In the app launcher, click the  **Admin** icon.

4. In the Office 365 admin center, in the left side menu, select  **Admin centers** and then click **Security &amp;Compliance**. If you are connected to the Compliance Center, click  **Check out your new** **Office 365 Security &amp; Compliance Center**. 

5. In the Security &amp; Compliance Center, click  **Permissions**.

6. Click  **Compliance Administrator**, and then click  **Edit**.

7. On the  **Compliance Administrator** page, under Members, click **Add**. 

8. In the Select Members window, click  **Beth** **Burke**, click  **add**, and then click  **OK**.

9. Click  **Save**.

10. Click  **To assign permissions for** **archiving, auditing and retention policies, go to the Exchange admin center**.

11. Click  **Compliance Management**, and then click  **Edit**.

12. On the  **Compliance** **Management** page, under **Members**, click  **Add**. 

13. In the Select Members window, click  **Beth** **Burke**, click  **add**, and then click  **OK**.

14. Click  **Save**.

15. Click  **Recipient Management**, and then click  **Edit**.

16. On the  **Recipient Management** page, under **Members**, click  **Add**. 

17. In the Select Members window, click  **Beth Burke**, click  **add**, and then click  **OK**.

18. Click  **Save**.

19. Close the Exchange role groups window.

20. Click  **eDiscovery Manager**, and then click  **Edit**.

21. On the  **eDiscovery Manager** page, under eDiscovery Manager, click **Add**. 

22. In the Select Members window, click  **Christie Thomas**, click  **add**, and then click  **OK**.

23. Click  **Save**.

24. Click  **Search &amp; Investigation**.

25. Click  **Audit log search**.

26. On the  **Audit log search** page, click **Start recording user and admin activities**, and then click  **Turn on**. Note that it can take a couple of hours before this option is enabled. 

27. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 2: Configure archive mailboxes
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://protection.office.com**.

2. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. Beth is a member of the Compliance Administrator role, so she can connect to the protection website.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Data** **governance**, and then click  **Archive**.

4. In the Archive window, click  **Christie Thomas**, and then Ctrl + click  **Catherine Richard**.

5. Under Bulk Edit, click  **Enable**. In the warning message, click  **Yes**, and then click  **Close**.

6. Click  **Refresh**, and then verify that Christie and Catherine have been enabled for an archive mailbox. 



#### Task 3: Configure retention tags and policies
  
1. In the left pane, under Data governance, click  **Retention**.

2. Under Delete, click  **Manage retention tags for mailboxes**.

3. On  **the Retention Tags** page, click **New tag**, and then select  **applied automatically to entire mailbox (default)**.

4. Type  **Research User 1 year move to archive** as the name.

5. Select  **Move to Archive** as the **Retention action**.

6. Type  **365** as the **Retention period**.

7. Click  **Save**.

8. On the toolbar, click  **New tag**, and then select  **applied automatically to entire mailbox (default)**.

9. Type  **Default 2 years move to Deleted Items** as the name.

10. Select  **Delete and Allow Recovery** as the **Retention action**.

11. Type  **730** as the **Retention period**.

12. Click  **Save**.

13. On the toolbar, click  **New tag**, and then select  **applied automatically to a default folder**.

14. Type  **Purge Deleted Items 30 days** as the name.

15. Under Apply this tag to the following default folder, select  **Deleted Items**.

16. Select  **Permanently Delete** as the **Retention action**.

17. Type  **30** as the **Retention period**.

18. Click **Save**.

19. On the toolbar, click  **New tag**, and then select  **applied by users to items and folders (personal)**.

20. Type  **2 Year Delete** as the name.

21. Select  **Delete and Allow Recovery** as the **Retention action**.

22. Type  **730** as the **Retention period**.

23. Click  **Save**.

24. On the toolbar, click  **New tag**, which is the plus sign ( **+**), and then select  **applied by users to items and folders (personal)**.

25. Type  **Never archive** as the name.

26. Select  **Move to Archive** as the **Retention action**.

27. Select  **Never** as the **Retention period**.

28. Click  **Save**.

29. Close the Retention Tags window.

30. On the  **Retention** page, click **Manage retention policies for mailboxes**.

31. On the toolbar, click  **New**.

32. On the  **new retention policy** page, type **Research MRM Policy** as the name.

33. Click  **Add** below **Retention tags**.

34. In the select retention tags window, Ctrl+click the following retention tags:

  -  **Research** **user 1 year move to archive**
  -  **Never delete**
  -  **2 year delete**

35. Click  **add**, and then click  **ok**. Click  **Save**.

36. Close the Retention Policies window.

37. On the  **Retention** page, click **Assign retention policies to mailboxes**.

38. On the  **Assign Retention Policies to Mailboxes** page, click **ChristieThomas**, and then click  **Edit**.

39. On the  **Assign Retention Policy to Christie Thomas** page, click **Research MRM Policy**, and then click  **Save**.

40. In the warning dialog box, click  **Yes**.

41. Close Microsoft Edge. 



#### Task 4: Configure content deletion and preservation policies
  
1. On the  **Retention** page, click **Manage document deletion policies for SharePoint Online and OneDrive for Business**.

2. Verify that Beth does not have permission to configure Microsoft SharePoint Online deletion settings. Close Microsoft Edge.

3. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://protection.office.com**.

4. Sign in as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

5. Click  **Data** **governance**, and then click  **Retention**. 

6. On the  **Retention** page, click **Manage document deletion policies for SharePoint Online and OneDrive for Business**.

7. On the  **Compliance Policy Center** page, click **Sample Document Policy**.

8. On the  **Sample Document Policy** page, change the policy name to **Marketing Document Policy**.

9. Under Rules for this policy, click  **New**.

10. In the  **New deletion rule** dialog box, type **Delete Messages at 7 years** as the name, select **Permanently Delete** as the delete action, select **Created Date** as the date from when the document deletion date will be calculated, and then configure the time period after which the document will be deleted as **7 years**. 

11. Select the  **Set as default rule** checkbox, click **Save**, and then click  **Ok**.

12. On the  **Sample Document Policy** page, click **Save**.

13. On the  **Compliance Policy Center** page, click **Policy Assignments for Site Collections**. 

14. On the  **Policy Assignments for Site Collections** page, click **new item**.

15. On the  **New: Site Collection Assignment** page, click **First choose a site collection**. 

16. In the  **Choose a site collection** dialog box, type **Marketing** in the search box, and then click the **Search** icon.

17. Select the  **Marketing** checkbox, and then click **Save**.

18. On the  **New: Site Collection Assignment** page, click **Manage Assigned Policies**. 

19. In the  **Add and manage policies** dialog box, select the ** Marketing Document Policy** checkbox, and then click ** Save.**

20. Select the  **Mark Policy as Mandatory** checkbox, and then click **Save**.

21. Close the  **Policy Assignments for Site Collections** tab.

22. On the  **Retention** page, under Preserve, click **New**. 

23. On the  **New preservation policy** page, type **Retain contract details** as the policy name, and then click **Next**.

24. On the  **Where do you want us to look?** page, select both **Mailboxes** and **SharePoint Online and OneDrive for Businesssites**, and then click  **Next**.

25. On the  **Which mailboxes do you want to include?** page, click **Add**, click  **Francisco Chaves**, click  **Add**, click  **OK**, and then click  **Next**.

26. On the  **Which SharePoint Online or OneDrive for Business sites do you want to include?** page, click **Add**.

27. On the  **Choose sites** page, type **https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/AcctsProj/** as the site URL, click **add** and then click **OK**.

28. Click  **Next**.

29. On the  **What do you want to look for?** page, in the box, type **Contract**. Select the  **Start date** checkbox, and then pick a date that is two days ago.

30. Leave the  **End date** checkbox cleared, and then click **Next**.

31. On the  **How long do you want to preserve the content?** page, click **7 years**, and then click  **Next**.

32. On the  **Do you want to turn on Preservation Lock?** page, click **Next**. 

33. On the  **Do you want to turn on this policy after it is created?** page, accept the default, and then click **Next**. 

34. On the  **Review your settings** page, click **Create**. 

35. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 5: Configure data loss protection policies
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://protection.office.com**.

2. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. In the navigation pane, click  **Data loss prevention** and then click **Policy**.

4. Click  **Create a policy**. 

5. On the  **Start with a template or create a custom policy** page, verify that **Custom** is selected, and then click **Next**.

6. On the  **Name your policy** page, type **Test DLP** in Name textbox, and then click **Next**. 

7. On the  **Choose locations** page, select **All locations in Office 365** and click **Next**.

8. On the  **Customize the types of sensitive info you want to protect** page, select **Use advanced settings**, and click  **Next**. 

9. On the  **Customize the types of sensitive info you want to protect** page, click **New rule**.

10. On the  **Create a new rule** page, in the **Name** field, type **Scan for IP address**.

11. Click  **Add or change types**.

12. In Add or change types window, click  **Add**. Select  **IP Address** from the list and click **Add**. Click  **Done**.

13. Click  **Add a condition**, click  **Content is shared**, and then select  **with people outside my organization**. 

14. Click  **Add an action**, and then click  **Restrict access to the content**. 

15. Under User notifications, enable  **Email notifications**. 

16. Under Incident reports, enable the option to  **Use email incident reports to notify you when a policy match occurs**. 

17. Click  **Save**, and then click  **Next**.

18. On the  **Do you want to turn on the policy or test things out first?** page, select **Yes, turn it on right away** and click **Next** and then click **Create**.



#### Task 6: Create compliance check content
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to https://portal.office.com.

2. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. On the Office 365 home page, click  **Mail**.

4. Click  **New**, type the new Microsoft account email address that you created for this course in the  **To** line, type **Server IP address** as the **Subject**, type  **My IP is192.168.1.15** as the message body, and then wait for a minute or two until the policy tip appears at the top of message.

5. At the top of the message, click  **Show details**. 

6. Click  **Override**, and then click  **Send**.

7. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 7: Validate the configuration
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://outlook.com**. Sign in with your Microsoft account.

2. Click the message from Beth Burke with the subject  **Server IP address**.

3. Close Microsoft Edge. 

4. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to https://portal.office.com.

5. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as  **Christie@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

6. Click  **Mail**.

7. Select your time zone, and then click  **Save**.

8. In the left pane of Christie's mailbox, under Folders, click  **More**.

9. Verify that a folder named  **In-Place Archive - Christie Thomas** has been created.

10. Close Microsoft Edge. 

11. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to https://portal.office.com.

12. Sign in to the Office 365 portal as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

13. Click  **Mail**.

14. Verify that you have received notification about message you sent to your personal account. This message should have  **Rule detected** words in the subject.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented the Office 365 compliance features.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  