# Lab Answer Key:  Module 9: Planning and configuring SharePoint Online
# Lab: Configuring SharePoint Online
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring SharePoint Online settings
  
#### Task 1: Configure settings
  
1. Ensure you are signed in to the 20347A-LON-CL1 virtual machine as  **Holly** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.

2. In LON-CL1, click the desktop, on the taskbar, click  **Microsoft Edge**, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

3. Sign in as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** (where _yy_xxxxx is your unique Adatum.com number) with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**.

4. In the Office 365 admin center, click  **Admin centers**, and then click  **SharePoint**.

5. On the leftmost side, click  **settings**.

6. Under  **Site Collection Storage Management**, click  **Automatic**.

7. Scroll down to  **Enterprise Social Collaboration**.

8. Select  **Use Yammer.com service**.

9. Click  **OK**.

10. On the leftmost side, click  **sharing**.

11. Verify that  **Allow** **sharing to authenticated external users and using anonymous access links** is selected, and then click **OK**.



#### Task 2: Configure user profiles
  
1. On the leftmost side, click  **user** **profiles**.

2. Under  **people**, click  **Manage** **User Profiles**. 

3. In the  **Find profiles** dialog box, type **Ada**, and then click  **Find**.

4. In the result window, in the drop-down list, click  **Ada**.

5. Click  **edit my profile**, and in the  **Manager** box, type **Holly**.

6. Click the  **check names** field and verify that the field displays **Holly Dickson**.

7. In the right corner, click  **Saveand** **Close**.

8. On the left side, click  **user profiles**.

9. Under  **My Site settings**, click  **Setup My Sites**.

10. Scroll down to  **My Site Cleanup**.

11. In the  **secondary owner** list, type **Holly**, and then click the  **Checknames** icon.

12. Scroll down, and then click  **OK**.



#### Task 3: Configure apps
  
1. On the leftmost side, click  **apps**, and then click  **Configure** **Store** **Settings**.

2. In the Apps for Office from the Store window, click  **No** to disable apps from starting when documents are opened in the browser.

3. Click  **OK**, and then close the browser.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured SharePoint Online service settings.


## Exercise 2: Creating and configuring SharePoint Online site collections
  
#### Task 1: Create a site collection using the SharePoint admin center
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge and sign in to  **https://portal.office.com** with the user name **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and the password of  **Pa55w.rd**.

2. In the Office 365 admin center, on the left side menu, click  **Admin centers**, and then click  **SharePoint**.

3. In the leftmost side, click  **Site collections**.

4. On the  **Site Collections** ribbon, click **New**, and then click  **Private Site Collection**.

5. In the  **new site collection** dialog box, in the **Title** dialog box, type **marketing**, in the empty text box, type  **marketing**, and then in the  **administrator** list, type **Holly** and then click the **Check Names** icon. Leave the other settings as suggested. To confirm, click **OK**.
>  **Note:** SharePoint Online provisions the new **marketing** site. This process can take a few minutes.
6. After  **marketing** is created, select the **https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing** check box.
>  **Note:** It can take a few minutes until the **Sharing** menu on the ribbon is active. You can speed this up by refreshing the page by pressing the F5 key.
7. When the  **marketing** site is selected, on the ribbon, click **Sharing**.

8. In the  **Sharing** dialog box, select **Allow sharing with all external users, and by using anonymous access links**, and then click  **Save**.

>  **Note:** The site settings changes to allow external user sharing. This process is usually done within one minute. Now, external user sharing is enabled and you can use it for this marketing site.


#### Task 2: Create a site collection using Windows PowerShell
  
1. To install the SharePoint Online Management Shell, you must first download it from the Microsoft Download Center. To do so, open a new Microsoft Edge tab and browse to  **http://aka.ms/f04q5o**.

2. On the  **SharePoint Online Management Shell download** page, in the **Select Language** drop-down box, select your appropriate language, and then click **Download**.

3. On the  **Choose the download you want** page, select the check box for the 64-bit version and for the most current file. Click **Next**. 

4. If a message about pop-ups appears, click  **Allow once**.

5. In the Internet Explorer dialog box asking whether you want to run or save the file, click  **Save** and then click **Run**.

6. On the  **SharePoint Online Management Shell Setup** page, select the **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** check box, and then click **Install**.

7. If a  **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.

8. When the installation completes, click  **Finish**.

9. Click  **Start**, type  **sharep**, and right-click  **SharePoint Online Management Shell**, and then click  **Run as administrator**.

10. In the  **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.

11. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter (where  _yyxxxxx_ is your unique Adatum domain name):

  ```
  Connect-SPOService -Url https://adatumyyxxxxx-admin.sharepoint.com -credential holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
  ```

12. In the  **Enter your credentials** dialog box, in the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click  **OK**.

13. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  New-SPOSite -Url https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/AcctsProj -Owner holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -StorageQuota 500 -NoWait -Template PROJECTSITE#0 -Title "Accounts Project"
  ```

14. Close the Windows PowerShell window.



#### Task 3: Configure permissions on the site collections
  
1. In LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, in the top-right corner, click the ellipsis, and then click  **New** **InPrivate** **Window**.

2. Browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

3. Sign in as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**. 

4. In the Office 365 admin center, click  **Admin**, and then click  **SharePoint**.

5. On the leftmost side, click  **Site collections**.

6. Select the  **https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing** check box.

7. On the ribbon, click  **owners**, and then click  **Manage** **Administrators**.

8. In the  **Site** **Collection** **Administrators** text box, type **Ada**, click the ** Check Names** icon, and then click **OK**.

9. Open another InPrivate window, browse to  **https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**, and sign in as  **Ada@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**.

10. On the upper-right corner, click the  **Settings** icon (the wheel icon), and then navigate to **site settings**.

11. Under Users and Permissions, click  **Site collection administrators** to open it.

12. Verify that  **Ada** **Russell** appears.

13. Close the Microsoft Edge window.



#### Task 4: Verify access to the site collections
  
1. In LON-CL1, open  **Microsoft Edge**.

2. Browse to  **https://adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com/sites/marketing**.

3. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**. 
>  **Note:** You need permission to access this site, and you need to send an access request for permission to view the site.
4. In the  **You need permission to access this site** dialog box, type **Please enable** **Beth's access to this site**, and then click  **Request Access**.

5. Close Microsoft Edge, and then reopen it.

6. Browse to  **https://Adatumyy _xxxx_.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**.

7. Sign in as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.

8. In the top-right corner, click the  **Settings** icon (the wheel icon), and then click **Site settings**.

9. Under  **User and Permissions**, click  **Site permissions**.

10. Click  **Showaccess requests and invitations**.

11. Verify that Beth's request is listed, and click  **Approve**.

12. Click  **Site Settings**, and then click  **Site permissions**.

13. Click  **marketing Members**.

14. Verify that Beth's account is listed. 

15. Click  **New**, and then click  **Add Users**.

16. In the text box at the top, type  **Perry**, and then click  **Perry Brill**.

17. Click  **Share**.

18. Close Microsoft Edge.

19. Open Microsoft Edge and connect to  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**.

20. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**. 

21. Verify that you can access the site.

22. Close Microsoft Edge, and then reopen it.

23. Browse to  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**.

24. Sign in as  **Perry@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**. 

25. Verify that you can access the site.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and configured SharePoint Online site collections.


## Exercise 3: Configuring and verifying external user sharing
  
#### Task 1: Configure global settings for external user sharing
  
1. In LON-CL1, open  **Microsoft Edge**.

2. Browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

3. Sign in as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**. 

4. In the Office 365 admin center, click  **Admin**, and then click  **SharePoint**.

5. On the leftmost side, click  **sharing**.

6. Click  **Allow** **sharing to authenticated users and anonymous access links,** and then click **OK**.



#### Task 2: Configure a site collection for external user sharing
  
1. In Microsoft Edge, click  **Site Collections**.

2. Select the  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/AcctsProj** check box.

3. On the ribbon, in the  **Manage** section, click **Sharing**.

4. In the  **Sharing** dialog box, click **Allow** **sharing with all external users,** **and** **by using** **anonymous** **access** **links**.

5. Click  **Save**.

6. Wait for the operation to complete, which might take about 5 minutes.

7. Close Microsoft Edge.

8. Open Microsoft Edge and browse to  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/AcctsProj**.

9. Sign in as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.

10. In the top-right corner, click  **SHARE**.

11. In the  **Share 'Accounts Project'** dialog box, type in the email address of the Microsoft account you used to set up Office 365.

12. In the text box, type  **You can now access this shared site on** **Adatum** **Publishing**.

13. Click  **Share**.

14. Browse to  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**

15. In the left navigation pane, click  **Documents**.

16. Click  **New**, and then click  **Word document**.

17. In the Word Online window, type some text, and then wait to check if  **Saved** appears in the document title, and then click the **marketing** link.

18. In the document list, click the ellipsis button ( **...**) next to the document you created, and then click  **Share**.

19. Click  **Get a link**, and then select  **Edit link - no sign-in required**, and click  **Create**.

20. Select the link, right-click it, and then click  **Copy** and, if prompted click ** Allow**.

21. Click  **Close**.

22. In the SharePoint Online window, click the apps icon, and then click  **Mail**.

23. If prompted, select your language and time zone, and then click  **Save**.

24. Click  **New**.

25. In the  **To** box, type the email address for your Microsoft Live account, and then in the **Subject** box, type **Shared Document**.

26. In the message box, right-click, and then click  **Paste**.

27. Click  **SEND**.

28. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 3: Verify external user sharing
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge and browse to  **https://outlook.com**

2. Sign in with your Microsoft Live account.
>  **Note:** The Inbox should show two emails from Microsoft Online Services Team. If the messages are not in the Inbox, look in the Junk folder.
3. Open the message that has the subject:  **Holly Dickson wants to share Accounts Projects**. 

4. Click the  **Accounts Project** link in the email.

5. Click  **Microsoft Account**. Verify that you can access the site. 

6. Close the browser tab. In your inbox, open the second invitation email message with the subject of  **Holly Dickson wants to share** **the document**.

7. Click the  **Document** link.
>  **Note:** You are redirected directly to the Word Document. Word Online opens and shows the document.
8. Verify that you can access the Word document and then click  **Edit in Browser**. 

9. Add some text in this document. 

10. Close Microsoft Edge.

11. Leave the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured a new site collection for external user sharing, and you should have shared a site and a document with external users.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  