# Module 12: Monitoring and troubleshooting Microsoft Office 365
# Lab: Monitoring and troubleshooting Office 365
  
### Scenario
  
 A. Datum Corporation's Office 365 deployment is almost complete. As the team enters the final phase of this project, you need to set up a suitable monitoring environment to track the status of Office 365 and to ensure that the help desk and IT management can respond to any reported issues. Additionally, you need to learn how to monitor and troubleshoot Office 365 issues so that you can train the support staff in these areas.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Analyze mail flow.

- View Office 365 reports.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 30 minutes 

Virtual machine:  **20347A-LON-DC1, 20347A-LON-DS1, and 20347A-LON-CL1**

 User name:  **Adatum\\administrator, Adatum\\Holly**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 In all of the tasks:

- Where you see references to "Adatum _yyxxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com", replace "Adatum _yyxxxxx_" with your unique Office 365 name that displays in the online lab portal.

- Where you see references to "Adatum _yyxxxxx_.hostdomain.com", replace "Adatum _yyxxxxx_" ****with your unique hostdomain.com name that displays in the online lab portal.


 This lab requires the following virtual machines: 

- LON-DC1:

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- LON-DS1:

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- LON-CL1:

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.



## Exercise 1: Monitoring Office 365
  
### Scenario
  
Some A. Datum users report that they cannot access their mailboxes through Outlook. You need to check whether the issue is with client connectivity or with mail flow.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Send an email to a nonexistent domain

2. Track mail delivery

3. Send an email to a nonexistent user

4. Track mail delivery

5. Analyze mail flow



#### Task 1: Send an email to a nonexistent domain
  
1. Sign in to the Office 365 admin portal as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxxx.hostdomain.com** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Go to Outlook on the web, and then create an email to  **user@alt.none** with any subject and body text.

3. Send the email.



#### Task 2: Track mail delivery
  
1. Review the failed delivery report with the reason "The domain name in the email address is incorrect".

2. Copy the message header of the message.

3. Browse to  **testconnectivity.microsoft.com**.

4. Click the  **Message Analyzer** tab, paste the content, and then click **Analyze** **headers**.

5. Note the diagnostic information and the time taken for the message to be rejected.



#### Task 3: Send an email to a nonexistent user
  
- Send an email from Holly to  **difflop48999@outlook.com**.



#### Task 4: Track mail delivery
  
1. Review the delivery failure with the "550 Requested action not taken: mailbox unavailable" reason.

2. In the Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer, on the  **Message Analyzer** tab, analyze the message header, and then examine the results.



#### Task 5: Analyze mail flow
  
1. Go to the Office 365 admin center, access the Exchange admin center, click  **mail flow**, and then click  **message trace**.

2. Add Holly as a sender.

3. Under Date range, select  **Past 24 hours**.

4. Under Delivery status, select  **Failed**, and then click  **Search**. Note the two messages.

5. Note the differences between the message processing events: Receive, Submit, Spam Diagnostics, and Fail for the nonexistent domain, and Submit, Receive, Spam Diagnostics, and Fail for the nonexistent user.

6. Close the Message Trace window.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have used the Message Header Analyzer to identify why email failed to deliver.


## Exercise 2: Monitoring service health and analyzing reports
  
### Scenario
  
 You identified the reports that you need to provide to A. Datum's management. Management is particularly interested in the number of malware and spam items that are reaching the organization. You need to familiarize yourself with the Office 365 reporting tools. Your next task is to produce reports on the numbers of messages that Exchange Online Protection is intercepting.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. View Office 365 service health

2. View reports in the Office 365 admin center



#### Task 1: View Office 365 service health
  
1. Connect to the Office 365 admin center.

2. On the menu, access  **Service Health**, and then view the history of the past 30 days for the Exchange Online service.

3. Click any yellow entry in the calendar to see further details.



#### Task 2: View reports in the Office 365 admin center
  
1. In the Office 365 admin center, click the  **REPORTS** link.

2. Review the following reports:

  - Mailbox usage
  - Send and received mail
  - Malware detections
  - Spam detections

3. Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have monitored the health of Office 365 services and viewed reports in the Office 365 admin center.


## 
  
**Question** 
How would you view all the failed messages for a group of users?

**Question** 
What is the first tool you will use to search for service incidents and failures?


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  