# Module 1: Planning and provisioning Office 365
# Lab: Provisioning Office 365
  
### Scenario
  
 A. Datum Corporation is considering moving some of the core on-premises services such as Exchange Server, Skype for Business Server, and SharePoint Server to Office 365. The project steering committee needs to ensure that Office 365 can provide the required functionality, and accommodate the corporate security and compliance requirements. To get started, A. Datum has decided to begin a pilot deployment of Office 365 for a group of users in the London office. 

As one of the most experienced IT admins at A. Datum, you are responsible for implementing the pilot project. To start, you need to configure the Office 365 tenant, and then configure the custom domain that your organization uses. You also need to ensure that you are comfortable with the Office 365 administrator interfaces. 


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure an Office 365 tenant.

- Configure a custom domain.

- Explore the Office 365 administrator interfaces.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 75 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1** and **20347A-LON-CL1**

 User Name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**,  **Adatum\\Holly**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 This course uses the new Office 365 admin center for all labs. If you are connected to the previous Office 365 admin center when you connect to Office 365, click the banner at the top of the page to connect to the new admin center. 

 In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **Adatumyyxxxxx** with your unique Office 365 Name displayed in the online lab portal.

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **Adatumyyxxxxx**with your unique hostdomain.com Name displayed in the online lab portal.


 This lab requires the following virtual machines (use only the VMs required for your lab):

- LON-DC1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Configuring an Office 365 tenant
  
### Scenario
  
 The first step in starting the pilot deployment is to configure the Office 365 tenant. You need to create a new tenant using the  **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** domain name.

>  **Note:** For simplicity, this lab uses an ordinary Office 365 trial account, not a FastTrack pilot extended tenant account. Also, note that you need to create an account with a unique name in the form: **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**. You can use the alphanumeric value for  **yyxxxxx** provided for you in the lab interface.

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create the tenant account

2. Verify Office 365 service health



#### Task 1: Create the tenant account
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, logged on as  **Adatum\\Holly**, open  **Microsoft Edge**, and go to the following URL:  [**https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office-365-enterprise-e5-business-software**](https://products.office.com/en-us/business/office-365-enterprise-e5-business-software)

2. Click  **Free trial**.

3. For Step 1, in the  **Welcome, let's get to know you** page, complete the following fields. Regardless of your location, use the following information:


  - Country:  **United Kingdom**

  - First name:  **Holly**

  - Last name:  **Dickson**

  - Business email address: (use your new Windows Live account that you created for this course)

  - Business phone number: Your mobile phone number, including international code for your current country

  - Company name:  **A. Datum**

  - Organization size:  **50-249 people**


1. For Step 2, you have to create a unique domain for the Company name to use in the course. Use the Adatumyyxxxxx name provided in the lab interface. For the rest of the fields, use the following information:


  - User name:  **Holly**

  - Company name:  **Adatumyyxxxxx** (where **_yyxxxxx_** is your unique Adatum number)

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Confirm password:  **Pa55w.rd**


1. For Step 3, you have to confirm your identity by using your mobile phone. Under  **Send text message**, from the drop-down box, select the code for the country that you are now in.

2. In the  **Phone number** box, enter your correct mobile phone number.

3. Ensure that the  **Send text message** option is selected, and then click **Text me**.

4. When you receive the confirmation text on your mobile phone, enter the code provided in the  **Enter your verification code** box.

5. Click  **Create my account**.

6. Wait until the Office 365 tenant is provisioned, and then click  **You're ready to go...**

7. Click the  **Admin** tile to go to the Office 365 admin center.



#### Task 2: Verify Office 365 service health
  
1. Use  **Service health** on the left-hand menu to display the Service health dashboard.

2. Review any service interruption records or additional information in the status page.

>  **Note:** During Microsoft testing, on rare occasions Office 365 did not create the trial tenant properly; as a result, the tenant did not have all the services available to it. If this happens to you, you should create a new trial tenant using a different business email (Microsoft account).

3. Close Microsoft Edge. 

4. If prompted, click  **Close all tabs**.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully provisioned the Office 365 tenant account for A. Datum Corporation.


## Exercise 2: Configuring a custom domain
  
### Scenario
  
 Now that you have configured the Office 365 tenant, the next step is to configure the custom domain that you will use for the pilot deployment. You need to create a custom domain using the  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** address, and verify the ownership for the group.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Add the custom domain

2. Completing the custom domain setup



#### Task 1: Add the custom domain
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, start Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. 

3. Click  **Admin**,

4. In the left-hand navigation, select  **Domains**, select **Add domain** to start the domain setup wizard.

5. In the text box on the  **Which domain do you want to use?** page, enter your domain name in the form of **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

6. Click  **Next**. 

7. Use a TXT record to verify you own this domain.

8. Write down the  **TXT** record shown in the **TXT value** column. This entry will be similar to MS=msXXXXXXXX. Record this value below:
MS=_______________________

9. Switch to  **LON-DC1**.

10. In DNS Manager, create a new forward lookup zone called  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

11. Right-click  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and click  **Other New Records**.

12. Under  **Select a resource record type**, scroll down to  **Text (TXT)**, and click  **Create Record**.

13. In the  **New Resource Record** box, leave the **Record name** field blank.

14. In the  **Text** field, enter **MS=msXXXXXXXX** that you recorded in Step 9.

15. Click  **OK** to create the record.

16. In the  **Resource Record type** dialog box, click **Done**.

17. Right-click  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and click  **New Host (A or AAAA)**.

18. In the  **New Host** box, Under **Name**, type the name of the external name server as displayed by the Lab hosting provider.

19. Under  **IP address**, provide the IP address of the external name server as provided by the Lab hosting provider.

20. Click  **Add Host** and then close the **New Host** dialog box.

21. Modify the  **Start of Authority (SOA)** record and replace the **Primary Server** reference with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the Lab hosting provider.

22. Modify the  **Name Server (NS)** record and replace the **Server** reference with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the Lab hosting provider.

23. Switch back to  **LON-CL1** and in the Office 365 admin center, click **Verify**.



#### Task 2: Completing the custom domain setup
  
1. Complete the domain setup wizard, reviewing the DNS records that you need to create for the custom domain. 

2. Select the option to skip the configuration of DNS records now. You will configure these in later labs. 


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have:Added a custom domain.Verified domain ownership.


## Exercise 3: Exploring the Office 365 administrator interfaces
  
### Scenario
  
 To familiarize yourself with the Office 365 administrator portals, and to get familiar with the default Office 365 configuration, you need to explore the Office 365 administrator interfaces. 

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Explore the Office 365 admin center

2. Explore the Exchange admin center

3. Explore the Skype for Business admin center

4. Explore the SharePoint admin center

5. Explore the Office 365 Security &amp; Compliance Center

6. To prepare for the next module



#### Task 1: Explore the Office 365 admin center
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, in the Admin center, click  **Home**.

2. On the left navigation menu, scroll down to explore all available items.

3. On the left navigation menu, review the users list.

4. On the left navigation menu, in  **Message center**, review the messages.

5. Do not close the browser window.



#### Task 2: Explore the Exchange admin center
  
1. On the left navigation menu, expand  **Admin centers**, and then click  **Exchange**.

2. A new tab will open displaying  **Exchange admin center**.

3. On the left navigation menu, click each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.



#### Task 3: Explore the Skype for Business admin center
  
1. Click the  **portal.office.com** tab.

2. On the left navigation menu, under  **Admin centers**, click  **Skype for Business**.

3. A new tab will open displaying  **Skype for Business admin center**.

4. On the left navigation menu, click each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.



#### Task 4: Explore the SharePoint admin center
  
1. Click the  **portal.office.com** tab.

2. On the left navigation menu, click  **Admin centers**, and then click  **SharePoint**.

3. A new tab will open displaying  **SharePoint admin center**.

4. On the left navigation menu, click each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.

5. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 5: Explore the Office 365 Security &amp; Compliance Center
  
1. Click the  **portal.office.com** tab.

2. On the left navigation menu, click  **Admin centers**, and then click  **Security &amp; Compliance**.

3. A new tab will open displaying  **Security &amp; Compliance admin center**.

4. On the left navigation menu, click each of the items, and then review the results displayed in the right pane.

5. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 6: To prepare for the next module
  
 Keep the virtual machines running for the lab in the next module.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have provided a high-level overview of administrative portals of Office 365.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why is it important to specify the correct country/region when you set up an Office 365 account?

**Question** 
What ports need to be open to ensure client communications with the Office 365 environment, and for what are those ports and protocols used?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  