# Module 2: Managing Office 365 users and groups
# Lab A: Managing Office 365 users and passwords
  
### Scenario
  
 After configuring an Office 365 tenant and preparing it for pilot deployment, you are now ready to start creating user and group accounts in Office 365. You and your team need to be familiar with how to configure these accounts by using the Office 365 admin center because this will be your primary tool for managing the environment after the deployment is fully functional. Additionally, you need to make sure that the password policy for Office 365 users matches the password policy for on-premises users.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Manage Office 365 users and licenses by using the Office 365 admin center.

- Manage Office 365 password policies.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 35 minutes

Virtual machine:  **20347A-LON-DC1**, **20347A-LON-CL1**

User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator** for LON-DC1 and **Adatum\\Holly** for LON-CL1

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 In all of the tasks:

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **yyxxxxx** with your unique Office 365 name that displays on the online lab portal.
- Where you see references to  **yourdomain.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **yourdomain** with your unique hostdomain.com name that displays on the online lab portal.


 This lab requires the following virtual machines (use only the virtual machines required for your lab):

- LON-DC1:

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.


- LON-CL1:

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.



## Exercise 1: Managing Office 365 users and licenses by using the Office 365 admin center
  
### Scenario
  
 The Office 365 tenant for A. Datum is now configured, and you need to start creating Office 365 users and then managing the user licenses.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create Office 365 users

2. Edit Office 365 users

3. Verifying user settings



#### Task 1: Create Office 365 users
  
1. On LON-CL1, verify that you signed in as Adatum\\Holly.

2. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**.

3. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

4. In the Office 365 admin center, browse to  **Active users**.

5. Add a new  **Lindsey Gates** user account with user name **Lindsey**.

6. On the  **User was added** page, view the temporary password, and then note the temporary password here: ____________

7. Repeat steps 4 and 5 to create the following users:

  - Christie Thomas
  - Amy Santiago
  - Sallie McIntosh
  - Francisco Chaves


8. Note their temporary passwords here:

  - Christie Thomas _____________
  - Amy Santiago _______________
  - Sallie McIntosh _____________
  - Francisco Chaves ___________



#### Task 2: Edit Office 365 users
  
1. In the Office 365 admin center, select the user  **Francisco Chaves**, and then change his  **Department** attribute to **Accounts**.

2. Change the sign-in status for Franciso Chaves to  **Sign-in blocked**.

3. In the  **Active users** list, click **Francisco Chaves** and verify that the **Department** box displays **Accounts**.

4. Verify that  **Sign-in status** is set to **Sign-in blocked**.

5. In the  **Active users** list, select **Lindsey Gates**, and then delete the user.

6. In the navigation menu, in  **Users**, click  **Deleted users**.

7. Verify that  **Lindsey Gates** is in this list.

8. In the  **Deleted users** list, select **Lindsey Gates**, and restore the account. Note the new temporary password for the user.

9. Verify that  **Lindsey Gates** is now listed in Active Users again.



#### Task 3: Verifying user settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**.

2. Sign in as  **Lindsey@yourdomain.hostdomain.com**, with the temporary password that you noted in the previous task.

3. When prompted, update Lindsey's password to  **Pa55w.rd**.

4. If prompted, enter your new password again, and then click  **Sign in**.

5. Verify that you can access the Office 365 portal home page.

6. Close and reopen Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**.

7. Sign in as  **Francisco@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the temporary password that you noted in the previous task. Update the password for Francisco to  **Pa55w.rd**.

8. Verify that you cannot sign in and that the message states that your account has been locked.

9. Close Microsoft Edge.

10. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**.

11. Sign in as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

12. In the Office 365 admin center, edit the user account for  **Francisco Chaves** by configuring the **Sign-in status** section to **Sign-in allowed**.

13. Close and reopen Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

14. Using the temporary password, sign in as  **Francisco@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number and.

15. Update the password for Francisco to  **Pa55w.rd**.

16. Verify that you can access the Office 365 portal.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and managed user accounts and licenses according to business needs.


## Exercise 2: Managing Office 365 password policies
  
### Scenario
  
 Your organization has configured a password policy for on-premises users that requires a complex password, and it requires users to change their passwords every 60 days. You need to ensure that the password policy for the pilot users on Office 365 matches the policy for on-premises users, and you need to report any settings that you cannot configure to match.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure the Office 365 password policy

2. Validate the password policy

3. Enable multi-factor authentication

4. To prepare for the next lab



#### Task 1: Configure the Office 365 password policy
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. In the Office 365 admin center, in  **Settings**, browse to  **Security &amp; privacy**.

4. Set the password expiration policy to  **14** days before the passwords expire.

  >  **Note:** This setting does not correspond with a real-world scenario. Use it as a sample scenario to verify the policy applied in the next exercise task.

5. In the  **Days before a user is notified about expiration** box, leave the default value of **14**.

6. Verify that the "Password policy has been updated" message appears at the top of the page.



#### Task 2: Validate the password policy
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Lindsey@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where yyxxxxx is your unique Adatum number, with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

3. On the upper-right side of the window, verify that the notification appears with the following information: "Time to change your password. Your password will expire in 13 days."

  >  **Note:** It might take a few minutes before the password change notification appears.

  >  **Note:** You have now verified that your password policy is applied. In a real-world scenario, after you verify that the password policy is applied, you would need to increase the number of days before the password expires, according to your organizational policy.

4. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 3: Enable multi-factor authentication
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

3. In the Microsoft Office 365 portal, in  **Settings**, browse to  **Services &amp; add-ins**.

4. Manage multi-factor authentication and enable multi-factor authentication for  **Amy Santiago**.

5. In  **service settings** for multi-factor authentication, remove **Call to phone** as a verification option.



#### Task 4: To prepare for the next lab
  
 Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab in this module.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured and validated an Office 365 password policy.



## 
  
**Question** 
After creating a user account, what account settings are available for you to edit in the Active users window of the Office 365 admin center?

**Question** 
What password policy settings are available in Office 365?

**Question** 
List the three types of mail-enabled groups in Exchange Online in Office 365.

**Question** 
What are the administrator roles that you can assign in Office 365?



# Lab B: Managing Office 365 groups and administration
  
### Scenario
  
 In addition to creating user accounts, you also need to know how to create group accounts in Office 365. In this pilot project, you will use Windows PowerShell commands to manage users and groups. If the pilot is successful, you can manage several hundred users and groups, and Windows PowerShell will be a means to manage them efficiently. One of the goals in the pilot project is to test delegated administration in Office 365, so you also need to delegate password management and billing management to different users.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Manage Office 365 groups by using the Office 365 admin center.
- Manage Office 365 users and groups by using Windows PowerShell.
- Configure delegated administrators.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machine:  **20347A-LON-DC1**,  **20347A-LON-CL1**

User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator** for LON-DC1 and **Adatum\\Holly** for LON-CL1

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 In all of the tasks:

- Where you see references to Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com, replace Adatumyyxxxxx with your unique Office 365 name that displays on the online lab portal.
- Where you see references to yourdomain.hostdomain.com, replace yourdomain with your unique domain name that displays on the online lab portal.


 This lab requires the following virtual machines (use only the virtual machines required for your lab):

- LON-DC1

  - Sign in as Adatum\\Administrator with the password Pa55w.rd.

- LON-CL1

  - Sign in as Adatum\\Holly with the password Pa55w.rd.



## Exercise 1: Managing Office 365 groups
  
### Scenario
  
 Your organization has a policy that groups rather than individual user accounts must be in use to assign permissions. Ensure that you can manage groups in the Office 365 admin center.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Creating Office 365 security groups

2. Manage security groups



#### Task 1: Creating Office 365 security groups
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com/**.

2. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where  *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. In the Office 365 admin center, create a new group named  **Sales**, with a description of  **Sales department users**.

4. Add  **Lindsey Gates** and **Christie Thomas** as group members.

5. In the Office 365 admin center, create a new group named  **Accounts**, with a description of  **Accounts department users**.

6. Add  **Francisco Chaves** and **Sallie McIntosh** as group members.



#### Task 2: Manage security groups
  
1. In the Office 365 admin center, verify that you can see the following groups:

  - Sales 
  - Accounts 

2. Add  **Amy Santiago** as a member of the **Sales** group.

3. Delete the  **Sales** group and confirm that **Amy Santiago** still exists in the list of **Active users**.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and managed security groups.


## Exercise 2: Managing Office 365 users and groups by using Windows PowerShell
  
### Scenario
  
If the pilot project is a success, you expect that you will need to manage hundreds of user and group accounts. To manage these efficiently, you will need to use Windows PowerShell. In preparation for this, you need to familiarize yourself with managing users and groups by using Windows PowerShell.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Installing Microsoft Azure Active Directory module for Windows PowerShell

2. Create new users and assign licenses by using Windows PowerShell

3. Modify existing users by using Windows PowerShell

4. Configure groups and group membership by using Windows PowerShell

5. Configure user passwords by using Windows PowerShell



#### Task 1: Installing Microsoft Azure Active Directory module for Windows PowerShell
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and browse to  [**http://aka.ms/t01i1o**](http://aka.ms/t01i1o)

2. Download and install Microsoft Online Services Sign-In Assistant for IT Professionals RTW.

3. In Microsoft Edge, connect to  [**http://aka.ms/siqtee**](http://aka.ms/siqtee)

4. Download and install the Microsoft Azure AD module for Windows PowerShell. 



#### Task 2: Create new users and assign licenses by using Windows PowerShell
  
1. On LON-CL1, on the desktop, right-click the  **Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell** shortcut, and then click **Run as administrator**.

2. If a  **User Account Control** dialog box appears, click **Yes**.

3. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Connect-MsolService
  ```

4. In the  **Enter Credentials** dialog box, sign in as **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, where  *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number, with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

5. Use the following command to create a new user account:

  ```
  New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@yourdomain.hostdomain.com -DisplayName "Catherine Richard" -FirstName "Catherine" -LastName "Richard" -Password 'Pa55w.rd' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "CH"
  ```

6. Use the following command to create another new user:

  ```
   New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName tameka@yourdomain.hostdomain.com -DisplayName "Tameka Reed" -FirstName "Tameka" -LastName "Reed" -Password 'Pa55w.rd' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "CH"
  ```

7. Use the following command to determine which users are unlicensed:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -UnlicensedUsersOnly
  ```

8. To view the available licenses, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolAccountSku
  ```

9. Use the following command to assign a license to Catherine Richard; replace Adatumyyxxxxx in the -AddLicenses attribute with the onmicrosoft.com domain name provided by the hosting provider:

  ```
  Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Catherine@yourdomain.hostdomain.com -AddLicenses "Adatumyyxxxxx:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
  ```

10. Use the following command to assign a license to Tameka Reed; replace Adatumyyxxxxx in the -AddLicenses attribute with the onmicrosoft.com domain name provided by the hosting provider:

  ```
  Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Tameka@yourdomain.hostdomain.com -AddLicenses "Adatumyyxxxxx:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
  ```

11. Use the following command to prevent a user from signing in to Office 365:

  ```
  Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@yourdomain.hostdomain.com -BlockCredential $true
  ```

12. Use the following command to delete a user:

  ```
  Remove-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@yourdomain.hostdomain.com -Force
  ```

13. Use the following command to view the list of deleted users:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
  ```

14. Verify that Catherine Richard is in the list of deleted users.

15. Use the following command to restore a deleted user:

  ```
  Restore-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@yourdomain.hostdomain.com
  ```

16. Use the following command to view the deleted users:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
  ```

17. Verify that Catherine Richard is no longer in the deleted users list.

18. Use the following command to view the active users list:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser
  ```

19. Verify that Catherine Richard is in the active users list.

20. Use the following command to allow a user to sign in:

  ```
  Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@yourdomain.hostdomain.com -blockcredential $false
  ```



#### Task 3: Modify existing users by using Windows PowerShell
  
1. On LON-CL1, open  **C:\\labfiles\\O365users.csv** by using Notepad.

2. In Notepad, replace yourdomain.hostdomain.com with your unique public domain name.

3. In Notepad, replace adatumyyxxxx:ENTERPRISEPACK with your unique onmicrosoft.com domain name, followed by :ENTERPRISEPREMIUM.

4. Close and save O365users.csv.

5. To bulk import several users from a CSV file, copy and paste this code into the Administrator: Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell window on LON-CL1, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Import-Csv -Path C:\labfiles\O365Users.csv | ForEach-Object { New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName $_."UPN" -AlternateEmailAddresses $_."AltEmail" -FirstName $_."FirstName" -LastName $_."LastName" -DisplayName $_."DisplayName" -BlockCredential $False -ForceChangePassword $False -LicenseAssignment $_."LicenseAssignment" -Password $_."Password" -PasswordNeverExpires $True -Title $_."Title" -Department $_."Department" -Office $_."Office" -PhoneNumber $_."PhoneNumber" -MobilePhone $_."MobilePhone" -Fax $_."Fax" -StreetAddress $_."StreetAddress" -City $_."City" -State $_."State" -PostalCode $_."PostalCode" -Country $_."Country" -UsageLocation $_."UsageLocation" }
  ```

6. Use the following command to view the  **Active users** list:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser
  ```

7. In the Office 365 admin center, verify the new user accounts.

8. In the Exchange admin center, verify that the users have been assigned mailboxes. 



#### Task 4: Configure groups and group membership by using Windows PowerShell
  
1. Use the following command to create a Marketing group:

  ```
  New-MsolGroup -DisplayName "Marketing" -Description "Marketing department users"
  ```

2. Use the following command to configure a variable for the group:

  ```
  $MktGrp = Get-MsolGroup | Where-Object {$_.DisplayName -eq "Marketing"}
  ```

3. Use the following command to configure a variable for the first user account:

  ```
  $Catherine = Get-MsolUser | Where-Object {$_.DisplayName -eq "Catherine Richard"}
  ```

4. Use the following command to configure a variable for the second user account:

  ```
  $Tameka = Get-MsolUser | Where-Object {$_.DisplayName -eq "Tameka Reed"}
  ```

5. Use the following command to add Catherine Richard to the Marketing group:

  ```
  Add-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId $MktGrp.ObjectId -GroupMemberType "User" -GroupMemberObjectId $Catherine.ObjectId
  ```

6. Use the following command to add Tameka Reed to the Marketing group:

  ```
  Add-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId $MktGrp.ObjectId -GroupMemberType "User" -GroupMemberObjectId $Tameka.ObjectId
  ```

7. Use the following command to verify the members of the Marketing group:


  ```
  Get-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId $MktGrp.ObjectId
  ```



#### Task 5: Configure user passwords by using Windows PowerShell
  
1. Use the following command to modify the password policy:

  ```
  Set-MsolPasswordPolicy -DomainName "yourdomain.onmicrosoft.com" -ValidityPeriod "90" -NotificationDays "14"
  ```

2. Use the following command to assign a new password to Tameka's account:

  ```
  Set-MsolUserPassword -UserPrincipalName "Tameka@yourdomain.hostdomain.com" -NewPassword 'Pa55w.rd123'
  ```

3. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:


  ```
  Get-MsolUser | Set-MsolUser -PasswordNeverExpires $false 
  ```


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created new users, assigned licenses, modified existing users, and configured groups and user passwords by using the Windows PowerShell command-line interface.


## Exercise 3: Configuring service administrators
  
### Scenario
  
 Members of the pilot project team have different responsibilities during the pilot. To ensure that team members have only the permissions that they require to perform various tasks in Office 365, you are going to assign different administrator roles to different users.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Assign service administrators in the Office 365 admin center

2. Manage service administration with Windows PowerShell

3. Verify service administration



#### Task 1: Assign service administrators in the Office 365 admin center
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

3. In the Office 365 admin center, edit  **Francisco Chaves** and change the role to **Billing administrator** using an alternate email address of **user@alt.none**.

4. In the Office 365 admin center, edit  **Tameka Reed** and change the role to **Password administrator** using an alternate email address of **user@alt.none**.

5. In the Office 365 admin center, edit  **Christie Thomas** and change the role to **User management administrator** using an alternate email address of **user@alt.none**.



#### Task 2: Manage service administration with Windows PowerShell
  
1. In Windows PowerShell, use the following command to add Sallie to the service support administrator role:

  ```
  Add-MsolRoleMember -RoleName "Service Support Administrator" -RoleMemberEmailAddress "Sallie@yourdomain.hostdomain.com"
  ```

2. Use the following command to add Amy to the company administrator role:

  ```
  Add-MsolRoleMember -RoleName "Company Administrator" -RoleMemberEmailAddress "Amy@yourdomain.hostdomain.com"
  ```

3. Use the following command to input the service support administrator role to the $role variable:

  ```
  $role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Service Support Administrator"
  ```

4. Use the following command to list the role members:

  ```
  Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
  ```

5. Verify that Sallie McIntosh is in the list of users who have the Service Support Administrator role.

6. Use the following command to input the billing administrator role to the $role variable:

  ```
  $role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Billing Administrator"
  ```

7. Use the following command to list the role members:

  ```
  Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
  ```

8. Verify that Francisco Chaves is in the list of users who have the billing administrator role.

9. Use the following command to input the company administrator role to the $role variable:

  ```
  $role = Get-MsolRole -RoleName "Company Administrator"
  ```

10. Use the following command to list the role members:

  ```
  Get-MsolRoleMember -RoleObjectId $role.ObjectId
  ```

11. Verify that Amy Santiago is in the list of users who have the Company Administrator role.



#### Task 3: Verify service administration
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Sign in as  **Tameka@yourdomain.hostdomain.com**, where  *yourdomain* is your unique domain name, with the password **Pa55w.rd123**.

3. Change Tameka's password to  **Pa55w.rd**.

4. Access the new Office 365 admin center.

5. Verify that you cannot modify any settings for Jessica Jenning's user account.

6. Verify that you can reset Jessica's password.

7. Write down the temporary password assigned to Jessica: ______________________________

8. Close and reopen Microsoft Edge, and then browse to  **https://portal.office.com**.

9. Sign in as  **Christie@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** using the temporary password assigned in Lab A. Change the password to **Pa55w.rd**.

10. Verify that you can modify settings on the Jessica Jennings user account. Change her phone number to 555-1234 and then block her sign in access.

11. Verify that you can add a new user named  **Chris Breland**. 

12. Verify that you can also delete the user account that you created. 


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have assigned service administrators in the Office 365 admin center, managed service administration with Windows PowerShell, and verified service administration.



## 
  
**Question** 
How would you design your group structure to minimize adding and removing people from groups?

**Question** 
What should you do before you can use Windows PowerShell to administer users and groups in Office 365?

**Question** 
Why would you create multiple administrative roles in Office 365 by using role-based access control (RBAC)?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  