# Module 3: Configuring client connectivity to Microsoft Office 365
# Lab: Configuring client connectivity to Office 365
  
### Scenario
  
 You configured the Office 365 tenant and the custom domain for A. Datum Corporation. You also created user accounts for your pilot users. The next step you must perform is to ensure that clients can connect to Office 365, and that their configuration is automatic, where possible. To enable these features, you must configure the required DNS records for your custom domain, and use the Office 365 connectivity tools to verify connectivity. You then must configure Office 2016 clients to connect to Office 365.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure DNS records for Office 365.

- Run Office 365 connectivity analyzer tools.

- Configure and verify client connectivity.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machine:  **20347A-LON-DC1**,  **20347A-LON-CL1**, and  **20347A-LON-CL2**

 Username:  **Adatum\\Administrator**, **Adatum\\Holly**, **LON-CL2\\Francisco**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 In all of the tasks:

- When you see references to  **AdatumYYXXXX.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **AdatumYYXXXX** with your unique Office 365 name that is displayed in the online lab portal.

- Where you see references to  **AdatumYYXXXX.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **AdatumYYXXXX** with your unique hostdomain.com name that is displayed in the online lab portal.


 This lab requires the following virtual machines: 

- LON-DC1

    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1

    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** with the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL2

  - Sign in as  **LON-CL2\\Francisco** with the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Configuring DNS records for Office 365 clients
  
### Scenario
  
 All users in the pilot group at A. Datum are going to use the custom domain name in their email address and sign-in credentials. You want to ensure that these users can sign in and that clients are configured automatically, so you must configure the DNS records that the custom domain requires.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Review the recommended DNS records in the Office 365 admin center

2. Configure the DNS records for external clients



#### Task 1: Review the recommended DNS records in the Office 365 admin center
  
1. Switch to the LON-CL1 virtual machine.

2. On the desktop, open Microsoft Edge.

3. Connect to  **http://portal.office.com**, and then sign in as  **holly@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com.com**, replacing  *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

4. In the Office 365 admin center, in the Domains window, review the domain names assigned to the  **Adatum** tenant.

5. In the Domains window, under the  **Adatum** domain on the right, review the recommended DNS records.

6. On the  **DNS errors** page, review the records that need to be configured for your domain.

7. Leave the Microsoft Edge window open. 



#### Task 2: Configure the DNS records for external clients
  
  **Configure DNS settings for Exchange Online**

1. On LON-DC1, start Server Manager, and then open the DNS Manager.

2. In DNS Manager, expand  **Forward Lookup Zones**, expand  **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** zone, and then create following records:


-  **Alias (CNAME)** - **autodiscover** - **autodiscover.outlook.com**

-  **Mail Exchanger (MX)** - - **adatumyyxxxxx-hostdomain-com.mail.protection.outlook.com**.


  **Configure DNS settings for Skype for Business Online**

3. On LON-DC1, in DNS Manager, expand the  **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** zone, and then create following service (SRV) records:

On the  **Service Location (SRV)** tab, enter the following information, and then click **OK**:


- Service:  **\_sip**

- Protocol:  **\_tls**

- Priority:  **100**

- Weight:  **1**

- Port number:  **443**

- Host offering this service:  **sipdir.online.lync.com**

- Time to live:  **1 hour (default)**

On the  **Service Location (SRV)** tab, enter the following information, and then click **OK**:


  - Service:  **\_sipfederationtls**

  - Protocol:  **\_tcp**

  - Priority:  **100**

  - Weight:  **1**

  - Port number:  **5061**

  - Host offering this service:  **sipfed.online.lync.com**

  - Time to live:  **1 hour (default)**


4. In DNS Manager, create the following  **Alias (CNAME)** records:

On the  **Alias (CNAME)** tab, enter the following information, and then click **OK**:


  - Alias name:  **sip**

  - Fully qualified domain name:  **sip.adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

  - Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host:  **sipdir.online.lync.com**

  - Time to live:  **1 hour (default)**

On the  **Alias (CNAME)** tab, enter the following information, and then click **OK**:


  - Alias name:  **lyncdiscover**

  - Fully qualified domain name:  **lyncdiscover.adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

  - Fully qualified domain name (FQDN) for target host:  **webdir.online.lync**

  - Time to live:  **1 hour (default)**


5. Switch back to LON-CL1, and then in the  **Office 365 admin** console, click **Check DNS**.

6. You should now see that most records are not listed anymore (you should see msoid, enterpriseregistration, enterpriseenrollment, and SPF records). Click to close the page.

7. In the top bar, click the  **Office 365** apps icon.

8. Click  **Mail**, and configure your time zone.

9. On LON-CL2, verify that you are signed in as Francisco. 

10. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

11. Sign in as  **Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

12. In the Office 365 portal, click  **Mail**, and configure your time zone.

13. Create a new email to  **Holly Spencer**.

14. When the name resolves, note her instant message (IM) status. It might take a couple of minutes for her status to update.

15. Initiate an IM session with Holly Spencer.

16. On LON-CL1, click the  **IM** dialog box.

17. Reply to the IM. Note that you now can send IMs between the two users.

18. Close both IM windows, and then close the Microsoft Edge windows on both virtual machines. 


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have:Reviewed the recommended DNS records in the Office 365 admin center.Configured the DNS records for external clients.Configured the DNS records for internal clients.


## Exercise 2: Running the Office 365 connectivity analyzer tools
  
### Scenario
  
 Before you connect any clients to Office 365, you must ensure that the environment's configuration is correct. To do this, you will run the Office 365 connectivity analyzer tools.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Run the Microsoft Connectivity Analyzer tool

2. Run the Office 365 Support and Recovery Assistant



#### Task 1: Run the Microsoft Connectivity Analyzer tool
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge.

2. In the address bar, enter  **https://testconnectivity.microsoft.com/**.

3. On the  **Microsoft Remote Connectivity Analyzer** page, on the **Office 365** tab, perform an **Office 365 Exchange Domain Name Server (DNS) Connectivity Test**, and for  **Domain Name**, type  **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

4. Perform verification by entering the characters that you see in the  **Verification** field.

>  **Note:** The verification code is not case-sensitive.

<!-- -->

>  **Note:** If you receive a message about having performed too many tests in 60 seconds, wait for a minute, and then repeat the test.

5. When you see **Connectivity Test Successful**, review the checks that were made against the Exchange Online domain.

6. Click  **Start Over**.

7. On the  **Office 365** tab, perform **Office 365** **Lync Domain Name Server (DNS) Connectivity Test**, and in the  **Sign-in address** text box, type **Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

>  **Note:** If you receive a message about having performed too many tests in 60 seconds, wait for a minute, and then repeat the test.

8. When you see  **Connectivity Test Successful**, review the checks that were made against the Skype for Business Online domain.

9. Click  **Start Over**.

10. Under  **Microsoft Office Outlook Connectivity Tests**, perform the  **Outlook Connectivity** test.

11. On the Outlook Connectivity page, in  **Email Address** and **Microsoft Account**, enter  **Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

12. In  **Password** and **Confirm password**, enter  **Pa55w.rd**.

13. Select  **Use Autodiscover to detect server settings**.

14. Check  **I understand that I must use the credentials of a working account from my Exchange domain to be able to test connectivity to it remotely. I also acknowledge that I am responsible for the management and security of this account**.

15. When you see  **Connectivity Test Successful with Warnings**, under  **Test Details**, review the checks that have been made against  **Outlook Anywhere**. Note in particular the message that contains information about the  **Autodiscover** steps that fail.

16. Under  **Run Test Again** at the top right, note that you can copy this test to the clipboard, or save it as XML or HTML.



#### Task 2: Run the Office 365 Support and Recovery Assistant
  
1. In the Microsoft Connectivity Analyzer window, on the  **Client** tab, in the **Microsoft Support and Recovery Assistant for Office 365** section, click **Support and Recovery Assistant download**. 

2. In the Office 365 Client Performance Analyzer window, download and install Office 365 Support and Recovery Assistant. 

3. Run  **Office 365 Support and Recovery Assistant**.

4. Select to use Advanced diagnostic and authentication checks.

5. Use Holly@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com credentials.

6. Review the details, and then close the window.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have:Run the Microsoft Connectivity Analyzer tool.Run the Office 365 Client Performance Analyzer tool.


## Exercise 3: Connecting Office 2016 clients
  
### Scenario
  
 The final step is to ensure that the Office 2016 clients can connect to Office 365.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Verify that Outlook 2016 can connect to Office 365

2. Verify that Skype for Business can connect to Office 365



#### Task 1: Verify that Outlook 2016 can connect to Office 365
  
1. Switch to the LON-CL1 virtual machine.

2. Start Outlook 2016, and then sign in by using the following details:


  - Your Name:  **Holly Spencer**

  - E-mail Address:  **Holly@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Retype Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


3. Verify that you are connected to Exchange Online. Close the First things first dialog box. 

4. On LON-CL2, repeat steps 1 through 3 by using the following information:


  - Your Name:  **Francisco Chaves**

  - E-mail Address:  **Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

  - Retype Password:  **Pa55w.rd**. 



#### Task 2: Verify that Skype for Business can connect to Office 365
  
1. Switch to the LON-CL1 virtual machine.

2. Start Skype for Business, and on the  **Skype for Business sign in** page, type **Holly@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, and then click  **Sign in**.

3. Verify that you are connected to Skype for Business Online.

4. On LON-CL2, repeat steps 1 through 3 by using the following information:


  - Sign-in address:  **Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


5. Keep the virtual machines running for the next module.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have verified:That Outlook 2016 can connect to Office 365.That Skype for Business can connect to Office 365.OneDrive for Business connectivity to Office 365.



## 
  
**Question** 
Why do you need to edit the DNS configuration, and add the canonical name (CNAME), service (SRV), and MX records?

**Question** 
How can you verify that the Autodiscover service in Office 365 is properly configured?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  