# Module 9: Planning and configuring SharePoint Online
# Lab: Configuring SharePoint Online
  
### Scenario
  
 Now that the pilot group is getting comfortable with Exchange Online and Skype for Business Online, the next step is to start using SharePoint Online. You need to start the SharePoint Online deployment by configuring the service settings, creating and configuring site collections, and configuring external user sharing.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure SharePoint Online settings.

- Create and configure SharePoint Online site collections.

- Configure and verify external user sharing.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1**, ** 20347A-LON-DS1**, and  **20347A-LON-CL1**

User names:  **Adatum\\administrator** for LON-DC1 and LON-DS1 and ** Adatum\\Holly** for LON-CL1

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 In all of the tasks:

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyy _xxxx_.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  ** _yyxxxx_** with your unique Office 365 name that displays on the online lab portal.

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyy _xxxx_.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **Adatumyy _xxxx_**with your unique hostdomain.com name that displays on the online lab portal. 


 This lab requires the following virtual machines: (use only the VMs required for your lab)

- LON-DC1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\administrator**

- LON-DS1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\administrator**

- LON-CL1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Configuring SharePoint Online settings
  
### Scenario
  
As a first step in the SharePoint Online deployment, you will configure using Yammer as the default enterprise social networking tool of the SharePoint Online service settings.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure settings

2. Configure user profiles

3. Configure apps



#### Task 1: Configure settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, connect to  **https://portal.office.com**, and then sign in as  **Holly Spencer**.

2. Access the SharePoint admin center.

3. In  **settings**, configure the following options:

  - Enable automatic site collection storage management
  - Select Yammer as the Enterprise Social Newsfeed.
  - Enable sharing to authenticated external users and using anonymous access links.



#### Task 2: Configure user profiles
  
1. In User profiles, select the user profile of  **Ada**, and add  **Holly** as his manager.

2. Under  **My Site Settings**, configure  **Holly** as the secondary site owner.



#### Task 3: Configure apps
  
1. Configure store settings in the app section.

2. Disable apps from starting when documents are opened in the browser.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured SharePoint Online service settings.


## Exercise 2: Creating and configuring SharePoint Online site collections
  
### Scenario
  
As a first step in the SharePoint Online deployment, you will create two different site collections, one for the Accounts Project group, and one for the Marketing group.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a site collection using the SharePoint admin center

2. Create a site collection using Windows PowerShell

3. Configure permissions on the site collections

4. Verify access to the site collections


#### Task 1: Create a site collection using the SharePoint admin center
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge and sign in to  **https://portal.office.com** with the user name **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and the password of  **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Access the SharePoint admin center.

3. In the leftmost side, click  **Site collections**, and create a new site named  **marketing**. Use the  **https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing** URL, and add Holly as the site administrator.

4. Wait for the site collection to be created.

  >  **Note:** It can take a few minutes until the **Sharing** menu on the ribbon is active. You can speed this up by refreshing the page by pressing the F5 key.

5. Change the  **Sharing** settings to **Allow sharing with all external users, and by using anonymous access links**.



#### Task 2: Create a site collection using Windows PowerShell
  
1. Download the SharePoint Online Management Shell tool from  **http://aka.ms/f04q5o** and install it.

2. Open the SharePoint Online Management Shell as an administrator.

3. Connect to the SharePoint admin center by running the following command:

  ```
  Connect-SPOService -Url https://adatumyyxxxxx-admin.sharepoint.com -credential holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
  ```

4. Enter your password.

5. Create a new SharePoint Online site by running the following command:

  ```
  New-SPOSite -Url https://Adatumyyxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/AcctsProj -Owner holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -StorageQuota 500 -NoWait -Template PROJECTSITE#0 -Title "Accounts Project"
  ```

6. Close the Windows PowerShell window.



#### Task 3: Configure permissions on the site collections
  
1. In Microsoft Edge, open a new InPrivate window, connect to the SharePoint admin center, and then select the  **/marketing** site.

2. Edit the properties of the site, and add  **Ada** **Russell** as an additional site collection administrator.

3. Sign in as  **Ada@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** and verify if you are a site collection administrator of the site.



#### Task 4: Verify access to the site collections
  
1. On LON-CL1, connect to  **https://adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com/sites/marketing**.

2. Sign in as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**. 

3. Verify that you cannot access the site, and then request access. 

4. Connect to  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing**.

5. Sign in as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, with the password of  **Pa55w.rd**. 

6. On the  **Site Permissions** page, approve Beth Burke's access request, and then add Perry Brill to the site members group.

7. Access the site again as Beth and verify that she has access. 

8. Access the site as Perry and verify that he has access. 


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have created and configured SharePoint Online site collections.


## Exercise 3: Configuring and verifying external user sharing
  
### Scenario
  
Now, you will create a new site collection and configure the SharePoint Online service settings. Then, you will share the site and documents with external users.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure global settings for external user sharing

2. Configure a site collection for external user sharing

3. Verify external user sharing



#### Task 1: Configure global settings for external user sharing
  
1. In Microsoft Edge, access the SharePoint admin center by signing in as Holly.

2. In sharing, enable external sharing for authenticated external users and users gaining access through anonymous access links.



#### Task 2: Configure a site collection for external user sharing
  
1. Select the  **/AcctsProj** website and configure it for sharing with external and anonymous guest links.

2. Share the AcctProj site with the Microsoft account (MSA) you used for setting up your Office 365 trial. Grant the user member permissions.

3. On the Marketing site, create a new document in the  **Documents** folder. Enter some text in the document.

4. Share the document with the Microsoft account (MSA) you used for setting up your Office 365 trial. Grant the user edit permissions.



#### Task 3: Verify external user sharing
  
1. Sign in to Outlook.com using your Microsoft account (MSA), and then use the link provided in the email to verify that the external user can access the  **AcctProj** site.

2. Verify that the user can also access and edit the document in the Marketing document library.

3. Close all browser tabs and close the browser.

4. Leave the virtual machines running for the next lab.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured a new site collection for external user sharing, and you should have shared a site and a document with external users.



## 
  
**Question** 
What is the best way to verify access to external sites?

**Question** 
What is the best way to configure user profile settings and where do you get all the data?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  