# Module 11: Planning and configuring Rights Management and compliance
# Lab: Configuring Rights Management and compliance
  
### Scenario
  
The compliance and security groups at A. Datum Corporation have concerns with the implications of moving internal services and content to a cloud-based solution, such as Office 365. To receive project approval, you need to show how you can use the Rights Management and compliance features to address these concerns.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure Rights Management in Office 365.

- Configure compliance features in Office 365.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 75 Minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1**, **20347A-LON-DS1**, and  **20347A-LON-CL1**

User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator, Adatum\\Holly**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all the tasks:

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **Adatumyyxxxxx** with your unique Office 365 name that is displayed in the online lab portal.

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replace  **Adatumyyxxxxx **with your unique hostdomain.com name displayed in the online lab portal.


This lab requires the following virtual machines (use only the virtual machines required for your lab):

- LON-DC1:

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- LON-DS1:

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- LON-CL1:

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.



## Exercise 1: Configuring Rights Management in Office 365
  
### Scenario
  
You need to configure Rights Management in Exchange Online and SharePoint Online to help ensure that confidential information is not shared with unauthorized users.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Activate Rights Management in Office 365

2. Configure Rights Management for Exchange Online

3. Configure Rights Management for SharePoint Online

4. Validate the Azure Rights Management functionality



#### Task 1: Activate Rights Management in Office 365
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to the Office 365 portal.

2. Sign in as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. Access  **Microsoft AzureInformation Protection** under **Settings/Services &amp; add-ins menu**, and then activate Rights Management.



#### Task 2: Configure Rights Management for Exchange Online
  
1. Open Windows PowerShell. 

2. Use the following commands to connect to remote Exchange Online with remote PowerShell. Use Holly's credentials to connect.

  ```
  $Cred = Get-Credential
  $Session = New-PSSession -ConfigurationName Microsoft.Exchange -ConnectionUri https://outlook.office365.com/powershell-liveid/ -Credential $Cred -Authentication Basic -AllowRedirection 
  Import-PSSession $Session
  ```

3. Use the following command to set the IRM sharing location to the region you are in.

  ```
  Set-IRMConfiguration -RMSOnlineKeySharingLocation "https://sp-rms.eu.aadrm.com/TenantManagement/ServicePartner.svc"
  ```

  >  **Note:** Depending on the location of your tenant, replace the link in the preceding command with one of the following:
  >  - For North America: https://sp-rms.na.aadrm.com/TenantManagement/ServicePartner.svc
  >  - For Asia: https://sp-rms.ap.aadrm.com/TenantManagement/ServicePartner.svc
  >  - For South America: https://sp-rms.sa.aadrm.com/TenantManagement/ServicePartner.svc 
  >  You can check the tenant location by running the command **Get-MsolCompanyInformation | Select ReplicationScope** after connecting to the tenant using **Connect-MsolService**. If the IRM sharing location does not match your region, you will receive an error in the next step.


4. Use the following command to configure Azure Information Protection as a trusted publishing domain.

  ```
  Import-RMSTrustedPublishingDomain -RMSOnline -name "RMS Online"
  ```

5. Use the following command to set the IRM configuration for licensed users only.

  ```
  Set-IRMConfiguration -InternalLicensingEnabled $true
  ```

6. Use the following command to test the configuration. 

  ```
  Test-IRMConfiguration -Sender holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
  ```

7. Remove the remote Windows PowerShell session, and then close Windows PowerShell



#### Task 3: Configure Rights Management for SharePoint Online
  
1. From the Office 365 admin center, connect to the SharePoint admin center.

2. Go to the  **settings** page.

3. Enable IRM, and refresh the IRM settings



#### Task 4: Validate the Azure Rights Management functionality
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Word 2016, and add  **holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** as the Office account.

2. Close Word 2016.

3. Open Outlook 2016. Create a new message for Beth Burke. On the  **Options** tab, click **Permission**, and then connect to the Rights Management server to get templates.

4. Click  **Permission** again, apply the **Do not Forward** policy, and then send the message.

5. In Microsoft Edge, connect to https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing. 

6. Click  **Documents**, and then access the library settings. 

7. Enable Information Rights Management (IRM), and then configure a policy with the following settings:

  - **Restrict permissions on this library on download**
  - Title:  **Marketing Policy**.
  - Description:  **Marketing policy for downloads**
  -  **Allow viewers to write on a copy of the downloaded document**. 

8. Close Microsoft Edge.

9. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to https://portal.office.com. Sign in as  **Beth@adtumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. 

10. Check Beth's email, and then verify that you received an email from Holly that is IRM protected. Click the message. 

11. Verify that you do not have the option to forward or print the message. 

12. In Microsoft Edge, connect to https://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com/sites/marketing. 

13. Open the document in the Documents library, and then verify that you get a message that the document is read-only.

14. Close Microsoft Edge.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured Rights Management for Exchange Online and SharePoint Online.


## Exercise 2: Configuring compliance features
  
### Scenario
  
You need to implement the compliance features required to address the security requirements.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure Security &amp; Compliance Center permissions and audit logging

2. Configure archive mailboxes

3. Configure retention tags and policies

4. Configure content deletion and preservation policies

5. Configure data loss protection policies 

6. Create compliance check content

7. Validate the configuration



#### Task 1: Configure Security &amp; Compliance Center permissions and audit logging
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then sign in to [https://portal.office.com](https://portal.office.com) as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

2. In the Office 365 admin center, click  **Security &amp;** **Compliance**, and then open the Security &amp; Compliance Center. 

3. In the Security &amp; Compliance Center, configure Beth Burke as a Compliance Administrator and add her to the Compliance Management and Recipient Management groups in Exchange Online. Add Christie Thomas as an eDiscovery Manager. 

4. Click  **Search &amp; investigation**.

5. Click  **Audit log search**. 

6. On the  **Audit log search** page, view audit logs for **User administration activities**.

7. Close Microsoft Edge



#### Task 2: Configure archive mailboxes
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to https://protection.office.com as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**. Beth is a member of the Compliance Administrator role group, so he can connect to the protection website.

2. In the navigation pane, click  **Data governance**, and then click  **Archive**.

3. Configure Christie Thomas and Catherine Richard with archive mailboxes. 



#### Task 3: Configure retention tags and policies
  
- Login to the Exchange Compliance Center as Holly and create the following retention tags for your organization:

- Default Policy Tag (DPT):

  - Name:  **Research User 1 year move to archive**
  - Retention Action:  **Move to Archive**
  - Retention Period:  **365 days**

- DPT:

  - Name:  **Default 2 years move to Deleted Items**
  - Retention Action:  **Delete and Allow Recovery**
  - Retention Period:  **730 days**

- Retention Policy Tag (RPT) on the  **Deleted** **Items** folder:

  - Name:  **Purge Deleted Items 30 days**
  - Retention Action:  **Permanently Delete**
  - Retention Period:  **30 days**

- Personal tag:

  - Name:  **2 Year Delete**
  - Retention Action:  **Delete and Allow Recovery**
  - Retention Period:  **730 days**

- Personal tag:

  - Name:  **Never archive**
  - Retention Action:  **Move to Archive**
  - Retention Period:  **Never**

- Create the following retention policies for your organization:

- Retention policy for Research users

  - Name:  **Research MRM Policy**
  - Retention tags included:
    -  **Research user 1 year move to archive**
    -  **Never delete**
    -  **2 year delete**

- Apply the retention policy for Research users to Christie Thomas's mailbox.



#### Task 4: Configure content deletion and preservation policies
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to https://protection.office.com as  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

2. Access the Retention page, create the following policies:

  - Name:  **Marketing Document Policy**.
  - Rule:  Create a rule that will permanently delete messages seven years after they were created.
  - Set the new rule as the default rule.
  - Locations: Exchange email, Marking SharePoint site

  - Name:  **Retain contract details** 
  - Rule: Reetails content that contains the word **Contract** for seven years
  - Locations: Exchange mailbox for **Francisco Chaves** and the Accounts Project SharePoint site


#### Task 5: Configure data loss protection policies
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, then and connect to https://protection.office.com as  **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

2. In the navigation pane, click  **Security Policies**, and then click  **Data loss prevention**.

3. Create a new DLP policy from a template with the following settings:

  - Information to protect:  **Custom**
  - DLP policy name:  **Test DLP policy**
  - Location:  **All locations in Office 365**
  - Types of sensitive information:  **Use advanced settings**
  - Sensitive information type:  **IP address**
  - Action:  **Restrict access to the content**
  - Condition:  **Content is shared with people outside the organization**
  - Configure the policy to send notifications and provide policy tips for users and to be active immediately.



#### Task 6: Create compliance check content
  
1. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to https://portal.office.com as Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com.

2. Send a new email to your new Microsoft account that you created for this course, with a subject of  **Server IP address** and a message body of **My IP is 192.168.1.15**.

3. Override the message block, and then send the message. 



#### Task 7: Validate the configuration
  
1. Connect to your Microsoft account mailbox, and then verify that you received the message from Beth.

2. Sign in to Office 365 as Christie@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com.

3. Access Christie's mailbox, and then verify that she has an In-Place Archive.

4. Access Beth's mailbox and verify that she received a notification about the message that was sent to your Microsoft account. 


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have implemented the Office 365 compliance features.



## 
  
**Question** 
What is the best approach to protect organizational financial data?

**Question** 
Retention policies are helpful for reducing space in your mailbox.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
