# Module 8: Planning and deploying Skype for Business Online
# Lab: Configuring Skype for Business Online
  
### Scenario
  
 As part of an Office 365 implementation, A. Datum Corporation wants to use Skype for Business Online to provide IM and online conferencing. You need to configure the Skype for Business Online service settings and the user settings to meet A. Datum's requirements.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure Skype for Business Online organization settings.

- Configure Skype for Business Online user settings.

- Configure a Skype Meeting Broadcast.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1**,  **20347A-LON-DS1**,  **20347A-LON-CL1**,  **20347A-LON-CL3,** **and** **20347A-LON-CL4**

In all the tasks:

- Where you see references to  **AdatumYY _XXXX_.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **AdatumYY _XXXX_** with your unique Office 365 name that is displayed in the online lab portal.

- Where you see references to  **AdatumYY _XXXX_.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **AdatumYY _XXXX_**with your unique hostdomain.com name displayed in the online lab portal.


This lab requires the following virtual machines: (use only the VMs required for your lab)

- LON-DC1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL3

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL4

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Ada** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Configuring Skype for Business Online organization settings
  
### Scenario
  
 A. Datum needs to ensure that internal users can communicate with some external users, but the company also wants the option to block communication with some specified domains. A. Datum also wants to customize the default meeting page to provide company-specific information. You need to configure the required settings.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Download and install the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell

2. Enable Skype Meeting Broadcast for the organization

3. Configure the organization settings for Skype for Business Online

4. Configure the meeting invitation settings

5. Validate the meeting invitation settings



#### Task 1: Download and install the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell
  
1. On LON-CL1, In Microsoft Edge, connect to  **http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=294688**.

2. Download and install the Skype for Business Online module for Windows PowerShell. 



#### Task 2: Enable Skype Meeting Broadcast for the organization
  
1. On LON-CL1, connect to Skype for Business Online by running the following commands in Windows PowerShell. Use Holly's credentials to connect:

  ```
  $cred = Get-Credential
  SfBSession = New-CSOnlineSession -Credential $cred
  Import-PSSession $SfBSession
  ```

2. Enable meeting broadcasts by using the  **Set-CsBroadcastMeetingConfiguration** cmdlet.



#### Task 3: Configure the organization settings for Skype for Business Online
  
1. On LON-CL1, use Windows PowerShell to configure the following:
  - Enable privacy mode by using the  **Set-CSPrivacyConfiguration** cmdlet with the _EnablePrivacyMode_ parameter.
  - Disable push notifications for Apple devices by using the  **Set-CSPushNotificationConfiguration** cmdlet with the _EnableApplePushNotification_ parameter.
  - Verify the privacy and push notification settings by running the  **Get-CSPrivacyConfiguration** and **Get-CSPushNotificationConfiguration** cmdlets.
  - Allow users to communicate with public Skype users by using the  **Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration** cmdlet with the _AllowPublicUsers_ parameter.
  - Allow users to communicate with federated partners by using the  **Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration** cmdlet with the _AllowFederatedUsers_ parameter.

2. Use the following commands to enable communication with all federated partners except for litware.com:

  ```
  $AllDomains = New-CsEdgeAllowAllKnownDomains
  $BlockedDomain = New-CsEdgeDomainPattern -Domain "litware.com"
  Set-CsTenantFederationConfiguration -AllowedDomains $AllDomains -BlockedDomains $BlockedDomain
  Get-CsTenantFederationConfiguration
  ```

3. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

4. Sign in as  **Holly@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password  **Pa55w.rd**.

5. In the Skype for Business admin center, verify the following settings:

  - Privacy mode is set to display presence information only to a user's contacts.
  -  **Apple** **Push Notification S** **ervice** is not enabled.
  - External communications are enabled for all domains except for litware.com.



#### Task 4: Configure the meeting invitation settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Skype for Business admin center, configure the following meeting invitation settings:

  - Help URL:  **http://help.adatum.com**
  - Footer text:  **Sample legal disclaimer**

2. Use the  **Get-CsMeetingConfiguration** cmdlet to verify the meeting invitation settings.

3. Remove the remote Windows PowerShell session, and then close Windows PowerShell


#### Task 5: Validate the meeting invitation settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Skype for Business 2016, and then sign in as  **Holly@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

2. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Outlook 2016.

3. Create a new Skype meeting request, and then send it to Ada.

4. Open the meeting, and then verify the help link and custom footer text. 


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online service settings. 


## Exercise 2: Configuring Skype for Business Online user settings
  
### Scenario
  
You need to configure different Skype for Business Online user settings based on the department of which the user is a member. You will use Windows PowerShell to configure the settings.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure Skype for Business user settings

2. Verify Skype for Business communications



#### Task 1: Configure Skype for Business user settings
  
1. On LON-CL1, in the Office 365 admin center, edit the Christie Thomas user account to remove the option to use Skype for Business. 

2. In the Skype for Business admin center, verify that Christie Thomas is not listed as a Skype for Business user.

3. Edit Ada Russell's Skype for Business user settings to remove the option to record meetings, and to prevent her from communicating with public Skype users.

4. Edit Francisco Chaves's Skype for Business user settings to enable him to connect to audio meetings only.



#### Task 2: Verify Skype for Business communications
  
1. On LON-CL4, ensure that you are signed in as Ada. Open Outlook 2016 and configure a profile for Ada@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com.

2. Open Skype for Business and sign in as  **Ada@adatamyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. On LON-CL1, create a Skype meeting request for a meeting that will start within the next 15 minutes, and then send the request to Francisco Chaves and Ada Russell.

4. In Skype for Business, send Ada an IM.

5. On LON-CL4, respond to the message. 

6. Accept the meeting request from Holly, and then join the meeting.

7. On LON-CL1, join the meeting, and then verify that Ada is connected to the meeting.

8. On LON-CL1, share your desktop. 

9. On LON-CL4, verify that Holly's desktop is visible in the meeting window. 

10. On LON-CL3, disconnect from the meeting.

11. On LON-CL1, disconnect from the meeting.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Skype for Business Online user settings and validated Skype for Business Online functionality.


## Exercise 3: Configuring a Skype Meeting Broadcast
  
### Scenario
  
 A. Datum is interested in exploring the option of hosting large company meetings and external meetings on Skype for Business. You need to configure a Skype Meeting Broadcast.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure a Skype Meeting Broadcast

2. Validate the Skype Meeting Broadcast configuration



#### Task 1: Configure a Skype Meeting Broadcast
  
1. On LON-CL1, connect to  **https://broadcast.skype.com**, and then sign in as  **holly@adatumvvxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Create a new broadcast meeting with the following information:

  - Meeting title:  **Test broadcast meeting**

  - Meeting time:  **Today's** **date**

  - Start time:  **Within** **the next 15 minutes**

  - Duration:  **1 hour**

  - Members:  **Beth** **Burke**

  - Access:  **Invitation only**

  - Attendees:  **Ada** **Russell**

3. Create and send an Outlook invitation to the meeting.



#### Task 2: Validate the Skype Meeting Broadcast configuration
  
1. On LON-CL3, ensure that you are signed in as Beth. Open Outlook 2016 and configure a profile for Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com.

2. Open Skype for Business and sign in as  **Beth@adatamyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

3. In Outlook 2016, accept the broadcast meeting request from Holly. 

4. Join the broadcast meeting. Verify that Beth can join the meeting.

5. Start the broadcast as a content only meeting.

6. On LON-CL4, accept the broadcast meeting request from Holly.

7. Join the meeting as Ada.

8. Verify that Ada can join the meeting.

9. On LON-CL3, stop the broadcast.

10. On both LON-CL1 and LON-CL4, disconnect from the meeting.

11. Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured a broadcast meeting and verified that users can join the meeting.



## 
  
**Question** 
How will you change the Windows PowerShell steps that you ran in the lab if you want to block all communication with external domains except for litware.com?

**Question** 
Do you think that your organization will use Skype Meeting Broadcast?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  