# Module 4: Planning and configuring directory synchronization
# Lab: Configuring directory synchronization
  
### Scenario
  
 The pilot deployment of Office 365 is well underway at A. Datum. The project steering committee has made the recommendation to continue with migrating additional departments to Office 365. The first step in completing the migration is to configure directory synchronization so that user and group accounts will be synchronized for the on-premises AD DS domain rather than managing all user and group accounts in Office 365.


### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Prepare the on-premises AD DS domain for directory synchronization.

- Install and configure directory synchronization with Azure AD Connect.

- Manage user and group accounts by using directory synchronization.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
 Estimated Time: 90 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1**, **20347A-LON-DS1**, **20347A-LON-CL1**, and **20347A-LON-CL2**

 User Name:  **Adatum\\Administrator, Adatum\\Holly, LON-CL2\\Francisco**

 Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

 In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **AdatumYYXXXX.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **AdatumYYXXXX** with your unique Office 365 Name displayed in the online lab portal.

- Where you see references to  **AdatumYYXXXX.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **AdatumYYXXXX** with your unique hostdomain.com Name displayed in the online lab portal.

>  **Note:** When you connect to the Office 365 admin center, you may be prompted to provide an authentication phone and authentication email address. If you see this window, click **Cancel**. 

 This lab requires the following virtual machines:

- LON-DC1

    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1

    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1

    - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL2

    - Sign in as  **LON-CL2\\Francisco** using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Preparing for directory synchronization
  
### Scenario
  
 Before directory synchronization can be configured, there are several checks that the team needs to run, including identifying duplicate accounts in AD DS, filtering the directory, correcting UPNs, and enabling directory synchronization in Office 365.

In this exercise, you will prepare the environment for directory synchronization. 

 The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure UPN

2. Prepare problem user accounts

3. Run the IdFix tool and fix identified issues

4. Configure the Office 365 tenant for directory synchronization



#### Task 1: Configure UPN
  
1. On LON-DC1, open Active Directory Domains and Trusts, and add Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com as an Alternate UPN Suffix.

2. Using Windows PowerShell, update the UPN on every user in AD DS with "@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com" for the domain name. To do this, type the following command and then press Enter:


```
Get-ADUser -Filter * -Properties SamAccountName | foreach { Set-ADUser $_ -UserPrincipalName ($_.SamAccountName + "@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com" )}
```



#### Task 2: Prepare problem user accounts
  
1. On LON-DC1, set the Execution policy in Windows PowerShell to Unrestricted, change the path to  **C:\\labfiles**, and then run the Windows PowerShell cmdlet  **.\\CreateProblemUsers.ps1**.

2. This Windows PowerShell script will make the following changes in AD DS:


- Klemen Sic. Add the "@" character to the beginning of "adatum" for the  **UserPrincipalName** attribute.

- Lara Raisic. Replace the existing string with "lara@adatum.com" for the  **EmailAddress** attribute.

- Logan Boyle. Replace the existing string with "lara@adatum.com" for the  **EmailAddress** attribute.

- Holly Spencer. Replace the existing string with "holly @adatum.com" for the  **EmailAddress** attribute.

- Maj Hojski. Replace the existing string with " " for the  **EmailAddress** attribute.



#### Task 3: Run the IdFix tool and fix identified issues
  
1. On LON-CL1, download the IdFix DirSync Error Remediation Tool from  [**https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=36832**](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=36832)

2. Extract the files to  **C:\\Deployment Tools\\IdFix**, and then run IDFix as an administrator. 

3. In the IdFix tool, click  **Query**, and then sort the errors by the ERROR column.

4. On the  **Actions** menu, select **Edit** for each of these objects, and then click **Apply**:


- Klemen Sic

- Holly Spencer

- Maj Hojski


5. Click **Query**.

6. Click to sort the errors by the UPDATE column, and for each of these objects, replace the  **mail** attribute with the appropriate string. On the **Actions** menu, select **EDIT**.


- Logan Boyle.  **mail** attribute should be "logan@adatum.com".

- Maj Hojski.  **mail** attribute should be "maj@adatum.com".


7. Click  **Apply**, and then click  **Query**.

8. Remediate any remaining issues.



#### Task 4: Configure the Office 365 tenant for directory synchronization
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Windows Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell and connect to MSOnline with the following credentials:


- User name:  **Holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


2. In Windows PowerShell, enable directory synchronization for Office 365 by using the following command:

  ```
  Set-MsolDirSyncEnabled -EnableDirSync $true -Force
  ```

3. In the Office 365 admin center, verify that directory synchronization has been enabled. 


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have resolved issues in AD DS identified by the IdFix tool and you will have enabled Active Directory synchronization in Office 365. 


## Exercise 2: Configuring directory synchronization
  
### Scenario
  
 Now that the environment is prepared for directory synchronization, the next step is to install and configure the Azure AD Connect tool and configure an initial synchronization.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Download and install Azure AD Connect

2. Run the Azure AD Connect tool with custom settings

3. Configure synchronization service filtering for organizational units

4. Configure synchronization service filtering for object attribute

5. Verify that synchronization was successful



#### Task 1: Download and install Azure AD Connect
  
1. Sign in to  **LON-DS1** with the following credentials:


- User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


2. Open Internet Explorer and connect to the Office 365 portal: **https://portal.office.com** 

3. If you are connected to the previous Admin center, click the banner at the top of the window to connect to the new Admin center. 

4. Sign in with the following credentials:


- User name:  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


5. Change the domain portion of Holly Dickson's account to  **@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

6. Close Internet Explorer, open it again, and connect to the Office 365 admin center. Sign in as  **Holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

7. From the previous Office 365 admin center, download and install Azure AD Connect with Customized Settings. You will need to configure the security settings for the Internet zone to enable file downloads.



#### Task 2: Run the Azure AD Connect tool with custom settings
  
1. On LON-DS1, complete the configuration of Azure AD and connect with the following settings:


- Connect to Azure AD, use the following credentials:

    - User name:  **holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

    - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

- Connect your directories, use the following credentials:

    - User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

    - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

- Filtering: Select only the IT OU.

- Do not make changes on other pages of the wizard.

- On the  **Ready to configure** page, select the option to **Start the synchronization process when configuration completes**.

- Sign out of LON-DS1 and then sign back in as Adatum\\Administrator.



#### Task 3: Configure synchronization service filtering for organizational units
  
1. On LON-DS1, configure the Active Directory Connector in Synchronization Service Manager for the following:


  - Containers: Add the Research OU.



#### Task 4: Configure synchronization service filtering for object attribute
  
1. On LON-DS1, use the Synchronization Rules Editor to configure a filter on the inbound synchronization rule with the following:


- Name:  **"In from AD - User DoNotSyncFilter"**

- Connected System:  **Adatum.com**

- CS Object Type:  **User**

- Metaverse Object Type:  **Person**

- Link Type:  **Join**

- Precedence:  **50**

- Scoping filter:

    - Attribute:  **MSDS-cloudExtensionAttribute15**

    - Operator:  **EQUAL**

    - Value:  **NoSync**

- Transformation:

    - FlowType:  **Constant**

    - Target Attribute:  **cloudFiltered**

    - Source:  **True**

- Use the Windows PowerShell to start the synchronization by executing the following command: 


```
Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Initial
```



#### Task 5: Verify that synchronization was successful
  
1. Ensure that you are signed in to LON-DS1 with the following credentials:


- User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


2. Open Internet Explorer, and then connect to [**http://aka.ms/siqtee**](http://aka.ms/siqtee)
      
3. Download and install the Microsoft Azure Active Directory Module for Windows PowerShell.

4. Use the following methods to verify synchronization:


- Synchronization Service Manager

- Windows PowerShell

- Office 365 admin center


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have installed Azure AD Connect with customized settings. Upon completion of the installation, you will start directory synchronization to Office 365 and have verified that synchronization was successful.


## Exercise 3: Managing Active Directory users and groups
  
### Scenario
  
 Now that directory synchronization is in place and working, you need to identify how managing user and group accounts has changed with directory synchronization.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a new user and group account

2. Move a user out of the scope of synchronization

3. Move a user into the scope of synchronization

4. Change group membership

5. Force synchronization

6. Validate the results of directory synchronization



#### Task 1: Create a new user and group account
  
1. On LON-DC1, use Active Directory Users and Computers to create the following user in the Research OU:


- First name:  **Perry**

- Last name:  **Brill**

- User logon name:  **Perry@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


2. Uncheck  **User must change password at next logon**.

3. Select  **Password never expires**.

4. E-mail:  **Perry@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

5. Use Active Directory Users and Computers to create the following group in the Research OU:


- Group name:  **Project Team**

- Group scope:  **Universal**

- Group type:  **Distribution**


6. E-mail:  **projectteam@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

7. Members:


- Arturs Priede

- August Towle

- Cai Chu



#### Task 2: Move a user out of the scope of synchronization
  
1. On LON-DS1, run the following command to verify that Vera Pace is an Office 365 user.

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -Search Vera
  ```

2. On LON-DC1, in Active Directory Users and Computers, move Vera Pace from the Research OU to the Sales OU.



#### Task 3: Move a user into the scope of synchronization
  
1. On LON-DC1, use Active Directory Users and Computers to move the user Ada Russell to the Research OU.



#### Task 4: Change group membership
  
1. On LON-DC1, use Active Directory Users and Computers to remove these users from the Research group:


- Claire Roberson

- Connie Vaughn

- Esther Wiggins



#### Task 5: Force synchronization
  
1. On LON-DS1, use Windows PowerShell to force an unscheduled, delta directory synchronization.



#### Task 6: Validate the results of directory synchronization
  
1. On LON-CL1, verify that the changes in AD DS were successfully synchronized to Office 365.

2. Assign Office 365 Enterprise E5 license to Perry Brill and Ada Russell.

3. Verify groups synced to Office365 and verify groups members.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have identified how managing user and group accounts has changed with directory synchronization.



## 
  
**Question** 
How do you configure OU level filtering for directory synchronization?

 Synchronization Service Manager is used to configure details of the synchronization tasks to be performed during directory synchronization operations, including configuration of OU level filtering.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  