# Module 13: Planning and configuring identify federation
# Lab: Planning and configuring identity federation
  
### Scenario
  
Directory synchronization is working well, and it has resolved the issue of managing user accounts in two locations. However, the security group at A. Datum is concerned that users will be able to log on directly to Office 365, which reduces their options for monitoring user logons. To ensure that all users will authenticate using the on-premises AD DS domain, you have decided to implement AD FS.


### Objectives
  
After completing this lab, you should be able to:

- Install and configure AD FS and Web Application Proxy.

- Configure SSO with Office 365.

- Verify that SSO is working.


Note: The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 75 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1**, ** 20347A-LON-DS1**,  **20347A-LON-WAP1**, and ** 20347A-LON-CL1**

User name:  **Adatum/Administrator**, ** Adatum/Holly**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **Adatumyyxxxxx** with your unique Office 365 domain name provided to you by your instructor.

- Where you see references to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **Adatumyyxxxxx** and **hostdomain** with your unique UPN name provided to you by your instructor.


This lab requires the following virtual machines:

- LON-DC1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-DS1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-WAP1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**

- LON-CL1

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Deploying Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) and Web Application Proxy
  
### Scenario
  
A. Datum Corporation has decided to deploy AD FS and Web Application Proxy to provide SSO for Office 365. You will start the implementation by installing and configuring the AD FS and Web Application Proxy roles.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Add DNS records required for AD FS

2. Install and configure the AD FS server role

3. Install the Web Application Proxy server role service

4. Configure the Web Application Proxy server

5. Verify that the AD FS server is working


#### Task 1: Add DNS records required for AD FS
  
1. On LON-DS1, open a Windows PowerShell, and run  **IPConfig**. Record the server IP address.

2. On LON-DC1, open the DNS Manager.

3. In the  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** zone, create a host record with a blank name using the external IP address provided to you by the hosting partner.

4. Create another host record with a blank name using the IP address for LON-DS1 that you recorded in Step 1.



#### Task 2: Install and configure the AD FS server role
  
1. Sign in to the  **LON-DS1** virtual machine as **ADATUM\\Administrator** with a password of **Pa$$word**.

2. Run the following command to create the Key Distribution Services root key to generate group Managed Service Account passwords for the account that will be used later in this lab.

  ```
  Add-KdsRootKey -EffectiveTime ((get-date).addhours(-10))
  ```

3. Use  **Server Manager** to access the Add Roles and Features Wizard for installing the **Active Directory Federation Services** server role.

4. After installing, in the Active Directory Federation Services Configuration Wizard, configure the following settings: 

  - For the  **SSL Certificate**, use the wild card certificate provided by the hosting provider.

  - For the  **Federation Service Name**, type  **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing adatumyyxxxxx with your unique Adatum domain name.

  - For the  **Federation Service Display Name**, type  **AdatumCorporation**.

  - Create a group managed service account named  **svc-ADFS**

  - Use the Windows Internal Database as the configuration database.

5. Finish the configuration.

6. Restart the computer.



#### Task 3: Install the Web Application Proxy server role service
  
1. Sign in to the  **LON-WAP1** virtual machine as **Adatum\\Administrator** with a password **of Pa$$word**.

2. Use  **Server Manager** to access the **Add Roles and Features Wizard** for installing the **Web Application Proxy** role service from the **Remote Access** server role.



#### Task 4: Configure the Web Application Proxy server
  
1. On LON-WAP1, use Remote Access Management to open the Web Application Proxy Configuration Wizard.

2. In the Web Application Proxy Configuration Wizard, on the  **Welcome** page, click **Next**.

3. On the  **Federation Server** page, use the following settings:

  - Federation service name:  **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing adatumyyxxxxx with your unique Adatum domain name.

  - User name:  **Adatum\\Administrator**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

4. Use the wildcard certificate provided by the hosting partner.


#### Task 5: Verify that the AD FS server is working
  
1. Switch to the LON-DS1 virtual machine.

2. Verify that Event ID  **100** displays in Event Viewer.

3. Switch to the  **LON-DC1** virtual machine.

4. In  **Internet Explorer**, open the following URL, replacing adatumyyxxxxx with your unique Adatum domain name, to verify that the federation service is available:
  
  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com/adfs/fs/federationserverservice.asmx**

  >  **Note:** The expected output is a display of XML with the service description document. If this page displays, then IIS on the federation server is operational and serving pages successfully.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have deployed the AD FS server in a federation server farm, and deployed the Web Application Proxy server to support AD FS.


## Exercise 2: Configuring federation with Microsoft Office 365
  
### Scenario
  
You need to complete the implementation of SSO by configuring federation between your on-premises Active Directory domain and Office 365.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

- Switch the Office 365 tenant to federated mode


#### Task 1: Switch the Office 365 tenant to federated mode
  
1. On LON-DS1, connect to https://portal.office.com and sign in asholly@adyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com with the password **Pa55w.rd**. Connect to the new Office 365 admin center if necessary.

2. Change Holly's user name to use the Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com alias rather than Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com. Holly cannot change the Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com to a federated domain if she is logged in using an account from this domain.

3. Execute the following cmdlets in Windows PowerShell.

  ```
  Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -force
  Import-Module MSOnline
  $msolcred = Get-Credential
  Connect-MsolService -Credential $msolcred
  Get-MsolDomain
  Convert-MsolDomainToFederated -DomainName Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
  Get-MsolFederationProperty -DomainName Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
  ```


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have enabled a federation trust between your on-premises Active Directory domain and Office 365 through your AD FS federation server, and you should have converted your domain for federated authentication in Office 365.


## Exercise 3: Verifying single sign-on (SSO)
  
### Scenario
  
You need to verify that identity federation is properly configured by verifying that SSO authentication is successful for internal and external users.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Verify SSO for internal users

2. Verify SSO for external users


#### Task 1: Verify SSO for internal users
  
1. On LON-CL3, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Type  **beth@adyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and verify that you are redirected to the Adatum sign in page.

3. Sign in as Beth and verify that you can connect to Office 365. 

4. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 2: Verify SSO for external users
  
1. Open a Web browser on your local computer and navigate to  **https://login.microsoftonline.com**.

2. Sign in with the following credentials:

  - User name:  **Grover@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

  - Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


3. Verify that you are redirected to the Adatum Corporation sign-in page.

4. Review the Office 365 page for Grover Chambliss, and then close the Web browser window.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have verified SSO authentication to Office 365 for a user on your corporate network and for a user on your host computer that is connected to the Internet.



## 


©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  