# Lab Answer Key:  Module 13: Planning and configuring identify federation
# Lab: Planning and configuring identity federation
  
## Exercise 1: Deploying Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) and Web Application Proxy
  
#### Task 1: Add DNS records required for AD FS
  
1. On LON-DS1, click  **Start** and then click **Windows PowerShell**.

2. Type  **IPConfig** and press Enter.

3. Record the IPv4 address assigned to the server. 

4. On LON-DC1, open Server Manager, click  **Tools**, and then click  **DNS**.

5. Expand  **LON-DC1**, expand  **Forward Lookup Zones**, and then click  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

6. Right-click  **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and then click  **New Host (A or AAAA)**.

7. In the New Host dialog box, leave the Name box empty, in the  **IP address** box, type the External IP address provided by the hosting partner.

8. Click  **Add Host**, and then click  **OK**. 

9. In the New Host dialog box, leave the Name box empty, in the  **IP address** box, type the LON-DS1 IP address that you recorded in Step 3.

10. Click  **Add Host**, click  **OK**, and then click  **Done**.



#### Task 2: Install and configure the AD FS server role
  
1. Sign in to the  **LON-DS1** virtual machine as **ADATUM\Administrator** with a password of **Pa$$word**.

2. Click Start, right click  **Windows PowerShell**, and then click  **Run as** **Administrator**.

3. At the command prompt, type the following command and press Enter. This command creates the Key Distribution Services root key to generate group Managed Service Account passwords for the account that will be used later in this lab. You should receive a Guid value as a response to this command.

  ```
  Add-KdsRootKey -EffectiveTime ((get-date).addhours(-10))
  ```

4. Click Start and then click  **Server Manager**.

5. In Server Manager, click  **Manage**, and then click  **Add Roles and Features**. If you get a Server Manger message about collecting inventory data, click  **OK**. Wait a minute and then try this step again.

6. In the Add Roles and Features Wizard, on the  **Before you begin page**, click  **Next**.

7. On the  **Select installation type** page, click **Role-based or Feature-based installation**, and then click  **Next**.

8. On the  **Select destination server** page, click **Select a server from the server pool**, verify that the target computer is highlighted, and then click  **Next**.

9. On the  **Select server roles** page, click **Active Directory Federation Services**, and then click  **Next**.

10. On the  **Select features** page, click **Next**.

11. On the  **Active Directory Federation Service (AD FS)** page, click **Next**.

12. On the  **Confirm installation selections** page, click **Install**.

13. When installation completes, on the  **Installation progress** page, click **Close**.

14. Click the exclamation mark icon on the toolbar, and then click  **Configure the federation service on this server**.

15. In the  **Active Directory Federation Services Configuration Wizard**, on the  **Welcome** page, click **Create the first federation server in a federation server farm**, and then click  **Next**.


16. On the  **Connect to** **AD DS** page, click **Next**.

17. On the  **Specify Service Properties** page, use the following settings, and then click **Next**:


- For  **SSL Certificate**, click the wild card certificate provided by the hosting partner.

- For  **Federation Service Name**, type  **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing adatumyyxxxxx with your unique Adatum domain name.

- For  **Federation Service Display Name**, type  **Adatum Corporation**.


1. On the  **Specify Service Account** page, select the option **Create a Group Managed Service Account**, for  **Account Name** type **svc-ADFS**, and then click  **Next**.

2. On the  **Specify Configuration Database**, click  **Create a database on this server using Windows Internal Database**, and then click  **Next**.

3. On the  **Review Options** page, click **Next**.

4. Once the prerequisites check is complete, on the  **Pre-requisite Checks** page, click **Configure**. Note : Some warnings are expected to be shown.

5. When the configuration completes, on the  **Results** page, click **Close**.



#### Task 3: Install the Web Application Proxy server role service
  
1. Sign in to the  **LON-WAP1** virtual machine as **Adatum\Administrator** with a password of **Pa$$word**.

2. Click Start and then click  **Server Manager**.

3. In Server Manager, click  **Manage**, and then click  **Add Roles and Features**.

4. In the Add Roles and Features Wizard, on the  **Before you begin** page, click **Next**.

5. On the  **Select installation type** page, click **Role-based or Feature-based installation**, and then click  **Next**.

6. On the  **Select destination server** page, click **Select a server from the server pool**, verify that the target computer is highlighted, and then click  **Next**.

7. On the  **Select server roles** page, click **Remote Access**, and then click  **Next**.

8. On the Select features page, click  **Next**.

9. On the Remote Access page, click  **Next**.

10. On the  **Select role services** page, click **Web Application Proxy**, in the popup window, click  **Add Features**, and then click  **Next**.

11. On the  **Confirm installation selections** page, click **Install**.

12. When the installation is complete, on the  **Installation progress** page, click **Close**.



#### Task 4: Configure the Web Application Proxy server
  
1. On LON-WAP1, in Server Manager, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Remote Access Management**.

2. In the Remote Access Management Console, in the left navigation pane, click  **Web Application Proxy**. In the middle navigation pane, click  **Run the Web Application Proxy Configuration Wizard**.

3. In the Web Application Proxy Configuration Wizard, on the  **Welcome** page, click **Next**.

4. On the  **Federation Server** page, use the following settings, and then click **Next**:


- Federation service name:  **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing adatumyyxxxxx with your unique Adatum domain name.

- User name:  **Adatum\Administrator**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


1. On the  **AD FS Proxy Certificate** page, select the *.hostdomain.com certificate, and then click **Next**.

2. On the  **Confirmation** page, click **Configure**.

3. When the configuration is complete, on the  **Results** page, click **Close**.



#### Task 5: Verify that the AD FS server is working
  
1. Switch to the LON-DS1 virtual machine.

2. In Server Manager, click  **Tools**, and then click  **Event Viewer**.

3. In Event Viewer, in the details pane, expand  **Applications and Services Logs**, expand  **AD FS**, and then click  **Admin**.

4. In the  **Event ID** column, verify that event ID **100** displays.
>  **Note:** If the federation server is configured properly, you should see a new event with event ID 100 in the Event Viewer Application log. This event verifies that the federation server was able to communicate successfully with the Federation Service.
5. On LON-DC1, open Internet Explorer and connect to  **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com/adfs/fs/federationserverservice.asmx**, replacing adatumyyxxxxx with your unique Adatum domain name, and then press Enter. 

6. If you get a message stating  **There is a problem with this website's security certificate**, click  **Continue to this website**. 

>  **Note:** The expected output is a display of XML with the service description document. If this page displays, then Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS) on the federation server is operational and serving pages successfully.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have deployed the AD FS server in a federation server farm, and deployed the Web Application Proxy server to support AD FS.


## Exercise 2: Configuring federation with Microsoft Office 365
  
#### Task 1: Switch the Office 365 tenant to federated mode
  
1. Switch to the LON-DS1 virtual machine.

2. Open Internet Explorer, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

3. Sign in as holly@adyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

4. Click  **Admin**.

5. If you are connected to the previous Office 365 admin center, click the banner at the top of the page to access the new Office 365 admin center

6. Click  **Users** and then click **Active Users**.

7. Click  **Holly Dickson**, and then, in the  **User name/Email Aliases** section, click **Edit**.

8. Change the primary email alias to  **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**. In the Warning window, click  **Save**, and then click  **Sign Out**.

9. Close Internet Explorer. Holly cannot change the Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com to a federated domain if she is logged in using an account from this domain. 

10. Click Start, and then click the  **Windows PowerShell** icon.

11. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following commands, pressing Enter at the end of each line:

  ```
  Set-ExecutionPolicy 
Unrestricted -force
Import-Module MSOnline
  ```

12. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $msolcred = Get-Credential
  ```

13. In the  **Windows PowerShell Credential** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then click **OK**:


- User name:  **holly@ Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


1. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Connect-MsolService -Credential $msolcred
  ```

2. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolDomain
  ```

3. Verify that your lab domain, Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com, is listed as  **Verified and Managed**.
>  **Note:** If you were running this from a computer other than the AD FS federation server, you would need to use the **Set-MsolAdfsContext** to reference the AD FS server.
4. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Convert-MsolDomainToFederated -DomainName Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
  ```

5. Verify that you get a  **Successfullyupdated** Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com ** domain** message.

6. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:


```
Get-MsolFederationProperty -DomainName Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
```

>  **Note:** This command reports the status of the domain federation, and provides details of URLs and certificates.

>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have enabled a federation trust between your on-premises Active Directory domain and Office 365 through your AD FS federation server, and you should have converted your domain for federated authentication in Office 365.


## Exercise 3: Verifying single sign-on (SSO)
  
#### Task 1: Verify SSO for internal users
  
1. On LON-CL1, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

2. Type  **beth@adyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** as the user name, and then press Tab.

3. Verify that you are redirected to the Adatum sign in page.

4. Type  **Pa55w.rd** as the password, and then press Enter.

5. Verify that you are connected to Office 365. 

6. Close Microsoft Edge.



#### Task 2: Verify SSO for external users
  
1. On your local computer, open a Web browser. 

2. In the Address bar, type  **https://login.microsoftonline.com**, and then press Enter.

3. In the  **Windows Credential** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then click **Sign in**:


- User name:  **Grover@ Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

- Password:  **Pa55w.rd**


1. Verify that you are redirected to the Adatum Corporation sign-in page.

2. Review the Office 365 page for Grover Chambliss, and then close the Web browser window.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have verified SSO authentication to Office 365 for a user on your corporate network and for a user on your host computer that is connected to the Internet.



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  