# Module 10: Planning and configuring an Office 365 collaboration solution
# Lab: Planning and configuring an Office 365 collaboration solution
  
### Scenario
  

### Objectives
  
 After completing this lab you will be able to:

- Enable and configure Yammer Enterprise.

- Configure OneDrive for Business.

- Configure Office 365 groups.

>  **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Use the lab steps provided by the hosting partner when completing the labs in this course.

### Lab setup
  
Estimated Time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines:  **20347A-LON-DC1,** **20347A-LON-DS1,** **20347A-LON-CL1, 20347A-LON-CL3**

User name: ** Adatum\\administrator**, ** Adatum\\Holly**, ** Adatum\\Beth**

Password:  **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- Where you see references to  **AdatumYY _XXXX_.onmicrosoft.com**, replace  **AdatumYY _XXXX_** with your unique Office 365 name that is displayed in the online lab portal.

- Where you see references to  **AdatumYY _XXXX_.hostdomain.com**, replace the  **AdatumYY _XXXX_**with your unique  **hostdomain.com** name displayed in the online lab portal.


This lab requires the following virtual machines: 

-  **LON-DC1**

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

-  **LON-DS1**

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

-  **LON-CL1**

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Holly** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**

-  **LON-CL3**

  - Sign in as  **Adatum\\Beth** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**



## Exercise 1: Configuring Yammer Enterprise
  
### Scenario
  
As a first step in exploring the collaboration options, you will configure Yammer Enterprise for A. Datum. Yammer Enterprise is enabled by default, so you need to configure the settings and explore the user experience with Yammer.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure a Yammer organization setting

2. Configure Yammer service settings, and enforce Office 365 identity

3. Configure the Yammer user experience

4. Using Yammer



#### Task 1: Configure a Yammer organization setting
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, connect to  **https://portal.office.com**, and then sign in as Holly Spencer.

2. Access Yammer admin center.

3. Click  **Usage Policy**.

4. Select the two options that indicate that users need to accept the usage policy and that a policy reminder is displayed.

5. Name the usage policy  **ADatum Acceptable Use Policy**.

6. Enter the following as the usage policy details:
 **Welcome to Yammer! Our goal is to provide a collaborative environment to connect with colleagues and bridge various departments and geographic locations to share meaningful information**.

7. Click  **Save**.

8. Accept the policy.

9. Ensure that users receive a weekly digest of group messages.

10. Disable usage of non-Microsoft applications.

11. Configure the  **Soft Delete** data retention policy.

12. Monitor the following keywords on Yammer:  **gambling**,  **erotic**,  **warez**.



#### Task 2: Configure Yammer service settings, and enforce Office 365 identity
  
1. Go to  **Content and Security**, and then click ** Security settings**.

2. Select the  **Enforce Office 365 identity in Yammer** check box.

3. Confirm that you are ready, and then save.



#### Task 3: Configure the Yammer user experience
  
1. Access the Yammer settings.

2. Go to  **Notifications** to configure the settings, and then change the digest to weekly.

3. Select only the following options: 

  -  **I receive a message in my inbox**
  -  **I log in from somewhere new**
  -  **I post a message via email (This will send a confirmation email)**

4. Click  **Save**.



#### Task 4: Using Yammer
  
1. Sign in to Yammer as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

2. Invite Christie to use Yammer.

3. Accept the usage policy.

4. Share the post from Holly.

5. Post the following message to the company timeline:  **"free gambling here"**

6. Sign out and sign in as  **Holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

7. Open Holly's mailbox.

8. Verify that you received a message from Yammer with a report about a monitored keyword appearance in Beth's post.

9. Close the browser.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have enabled Yammer Enterprise for A. Datum Corporation.


## Exercise 2: Configuring OneDrive for Business
  
### Scenario
  
After you enable Yammer Enterprise, you are ready to configure OneDrive for Business for A. Datum. If you have Office 2013 or Office 2016 installed, you have the sync client on your computer, and you can start using OneDrive for Business.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Enable OneDrive for Business synchronization

2. Create files to synchronize with OneDrive for Business 

3. Share files with other users



#### Task 1: Enable OneDrive for Business synchronization
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, open Word 2016, and then verify that Word is licensed to Beth Burke. If it is not, change the account to Beth's account. 

2. Open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to  **https://portal.office.com**.

3. Sign in as  **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

4. In the Office 365 portal, click  **OneDrive**.

5. Create a Word document on the OneDrive site.

6. Select the option to synchronize the  **OneDrive** folder.

7. Open File Explorer and browse the OneDrive location where the synchronized files are stored. Verify that the Word document has been synchronized to the local computer. 



#### Task 2: Create files to synchronize with OneDrive for Business
  
1. On  **LON-CL3**, in the  **OneDrive for Business** folder, create two new folders named **Private** and **Project A**.

2. In the  **Private** folder, create a new Word document named **Holidays.docx**. Open the file, type some text, save the document, and then close Microsoft Word.

3. In the  **Project A** folder, create a new Word document named **project targets.docx**. Open the file, type some text, save the document, and then close Word.

4. Verify that both files are synchronized to Office 365.

5. To view the files online, switch to the Microsoft Edge windows, and verify that the two folders with the files are displayed in OneDrive for Business.

6. In Microsoft Edge, navigate to the folder  **Private**, open the synchronized document  **Holidays.docx**, add some text in Word Online, and then return to the OneDrive for Business Files site.

7. Switch back to File Explorer, navigate to the folder  **Private**, and then open  **Holidays.docx**. You will see that the changes made in Word Online are synchronized automatically.



#### Task 3: Share files with other users
  
1. In File Explorer, right-click the folder named  **Project A**, and then from the context menu, select the option to open the folder in the browser.

2. Select the option to share the  **Project targets** document.

3. Share the document with edit permissions with Holly Spencer.

4. Open an InPrivate Microsoft Edge window, and then connect to Office 365 as Holly. Access Holly's mail. 

5. Verify that you can open and edit the document shared by Beth. 

6. In Beth's online  **OneDrive for Business** folder, stop sharing the document.

7. Close all Microsoft Edge windows.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Microsoft OneDrive for A. Datum.


## Exercise 3: Configuring Office 365 groups
  
### Scenario
  
The final Office 365 collaboration solution that you need to explore is Office 365 groups. You need to configure Office 365 groups, including membership, privacy, and subscription options, and explore the user interaction with Office 365 groups.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure a private Office 365 group

2. Configure a public Office 365 group with Windows PowerShell

3. Explore the Office 365 group components



#### Task 1: Configure a private Office 365 group
  
1. In the Office 365 admin center, create a new Office 365 group named  **AdatumMarketing**, and then set it to  **private**. 

2. Assign  **Holly Spencer** as the group owner, and **Beth** **Burke** as a group member.

3. Set the group language as  **English (United Kingdom)**.



#### Task 2: Configure a public Office 365 group with Windows PowerShell
  
1. Connect to Exchange Online Remote PowerShell. 

2. Create a new unified group named  **Planning Group** by using the **new-unified group** cmdlet.

3. After the group is created, add  **Holly@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** as a group owner.

4. Add  **Francisco@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** as a group member.



#### Task 3: Explore the Office 365 group components
  
1. On  **LON-CL1**, connect to  **https://portal.office.com** as **Holly@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

2. Browse Office 365 groups through the Outlook Web App.

3. View the  **Planning** group.

4. Create a new conversation in the group with Holly Spencer.

5. Switch to the group calendar, and then add an entry named  **Planning meeting** for tomorrow.

6. Check if the calendar item synchronizes to Holly's calendar.

7. In the  **Files** group, add a new Word document.

8. On  **LON-CL3**, open Microsoft Edge, and then sign in to  **https://portal.office.com** as **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

9. Click  **Outlook**. Verify that the  **AdatumMarketing** group appears in your **Groups** list.

10. Join the  **Planning** group and verify that you see the message and document that Holly created in the group.

11. Keep the virtual machines running for the next lab.


>  **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have configured Microsoft Office 365 groups at A. Datum.



## 
  
**Question** 
If you enforce Office 365 identities in Yammer, what is the impact for Yammer users with no Office 365 identities?

**Question** 
Which Windows PowerShell cmdlets can you use to create an Office 365 group and to add the group owner?



©2016 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  